
Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this
      file which includes the original illustrations.
      See 21826-h.htm or 21826-h.zip:
      (https://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/2/1/8/2/21826/21826-h/21826-h.htm)
      or
      (https://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/2/1/8/2/21826/21826-h.zip)


      Images of the original pages are available through
      Early Canadiana Online. See
      http://www.canadiana.org/ECO/ItemRecord/38328?id=9106f89a0c3d04d6


Transcriber's note:

      Obvious typographical errors have been corrected, but
      inconsistencies in spelling and hyphenation have been
      retained.

      Advertisements are presented as in the original--several
      before the text with the remainder after the text.





MY
PET RECIPES
TRIED and TRUE

CONTRIBUTED BY THE LADIES AND FRIENDS
OF ST. ANDREW'S CHURCH
QUEBEC


     *     *     *     *     *     *


    BY APPOINTMENT FURRIERS TO THE QUEEN.

    HOLT, RENFREW & Co.

    QUEBEC and TORONTO.

    THE ..
    LARGEST

    Manufacturers of
    FINE FURS in Canada

    Exclusive Designs in Ladies' Persian
    Lamb and Sealskin Coats

    FINE HUDSON BAY AND
      RUSSIAN SABLE SKINS,
        SILVER, WHITE AND
          BLUE FOX SKINS.




    RECIPES
    ARE USELESS

    Unless you have the ingredients to
    demonstrate them.

    This Is Where We Shine

    We carry the very best of groceries
    in Quebec. We make a specialty
    of the choicest goods. Everything
    is fresh and appetizing. If you are
    among our customers you are aware
    of these facts. If not give us a
    trial order.

    A. GRENIER

    Family Grocer and Wine
    Merchant

    92 & 94 St. John Street

    .. TELEPHONE 241 ..




    ESTABLISHED 1842

    GLOVER, FRY & CO.

    ... IMPORTERS OF ...

    FANCY DRY GOODS

    NOVELTIES RECEIVED WEEKLY

    DRESS AND MANTLE DEPARTMENTS Under
    First Class Modistes. Special Orders
    Executed Promptly

    LATEST NOVELTIES IN MILLINERY,
            STRAW, CHIP and FELT HATS
                        ... NEW SHAPES.

    GENTLEMEN'S CLOTHING Made To Order Within
    12 Hours. First Class Fit and Workmanship
    Guaranteed

    All Goods Marked in Plain Figures.

    One Price Only.

    GLOVER, FRY & Co.

    24 & 26 Fabrique Street,

    Quebec.




    Under the distinguished patronage of H. R. H. Princess Louise,
    H. E. Lady Stanley of Preston, also Her Excellency Lady Aberdeen.
    For Ladies Tailor made Garments.

    D. MORGAN,
    PLACE D'ARMES  -  QUEBEC.

    Ladies Costumes

    Of all descriptions in Cloth made to order on short
    notice, also Cloaks, Ulsters, etc., etc.




    Medicine ..

    When you need medicine you want the best.
    That is natural. A man may be contented
    with an $18.00 overcoat even though he knows
    some other men wear coats that cost $45.00.
    A woman may wear $1 gloves and see the $2
    kind without being disturbed. IT IS DIFFERENT
    WITH MEDICINE. Everyone wants the
    highest quality; and that is the only kind
    we keep. We are particular in selecting and
    buying our drugs; careful in making our
    medicines and exact in compounding prescriptions.

    WE SOLICIT YOUR TRADE ON THESE ASSURANCES.

    HENRY WILLIS,
    CHEMIST and DRUGGIST
    4 St. John Street, - - - Quebec.




    S. J. SHAW & Co.

    13 St. John Street,

    ... AND ...

    Corner Mountain Hill
    and Notre-Dame St.

    House Furnishing
    HARDWARE
    FANCY MOULDS
    AND SLICERS.

    Telephones  {UPPER TOWN,      573
                {LOWER TOWN,       44





    [Illustration: M. TIMMONS & SON
    MANUFACTURERS OF
    GINGER ALE
    SODA WATER &c.
    QUEBEC]

    THE BEST IN THE UNIVERSE.

    THE ...

    MAGI CALEDONIA
    MINERAL WATERS

    Are famous for the relief afforded in Rheumatism,
    Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Liver, Kidney and Bladder
    troubles, Blood and Skin diseases, Female Complaints,
    etc. Surpassing in the cures the most
    celebrated European Spas. At the World's Columbian
    Exhibition, the highest distinction was
    awarded the

    MAGI CALEDONIA SPRINGS WATERS

    over all competitors--Medal and Diploma.


    M. TIMMONS & SON,

    SOLE AGENTS & BOTTLERS,

    90-92 COTE D'ABRAHAM, QUEBEC.


     *     *     *     *     *     *


MY
PET RECIPES
TRIED and TRUE

CONTRIBUTED BY THE LADIES AND FRIENDS
OF ST. ANDREW'S CHURCH
QUEBEC







    "We may live without poetry, music and art;
     We may live without conscience, and live without heart;
     We may live without friends; we may live without books;
     But civilized man cannot live without cooks."
                                      --OWEN MEREDITH.


Quebec
"Daily Telegraph" Printing House
1900




Rhymes to Remember...


        "_Always have lobster sauce with salmon,
        And put mint sauce your roasted lamb on.
    In dressing salad mind this law
    With two hard yolks use one raw.
        Roast pork, sans apple sauce, past doubt
        Is Hamlet with the Prince left out.
    Broil lightly your beefsteak--to fry it
    Argues contempt of christian diet.
        It gives true epicures the vapors
        To see boiled mutton minus capers.
    Boiled turkey, gourmands know, of course
    Is exquisite with celery sauce.
        Roasted in paste, a haunch of mutton
        Might make ascetics play the glutton.
    To roast spring chickens is to spoil them,
    Just split them down the back and broil them,
    Shad, stuffed and baked is most delicious,
    T'would have electrified Apicius.
        Roast veal with rich stock gravy serve,
        And pickled mushrooms too, observe,
    The cook deserves a hearty cuffing
    Who serves roast fowl with tasteless stuffing.
        But one might rhyme for weeks this way,
        And still have lots of things to say;
    And so I'll close, for reader mine,
    This is about the hour to dine._"




SOUP.


"The best soups are made with a blending of many flavors. Don't be
afraid of experimenting with them. Where you make one mistake you will
be surprised to find the number of successful varieties you can produce.
If you like a spicy flavor try two or three cloves, or allspice, or bay
leaves. All soups are improved by a dash of onion, unless it is the
white soups, or pur√©es from chicken, veal, fish, etc. In these celery
may be used. In nothing as well as soups can a housekeeper be economical
of the odds and ends of food left from meals. One of the best cooks was
in the habit of saving everything, and announced one day, when her soup
was especially praised, that it contained the crumbs of gingerbread from
her cake box! Creamed onions left from a dinner, or a little stewed
corn, potatoes mashed, a few baked beans--even a small dish of apple
sauce have often added to the flavor of soup. Of course, all good meat
gravies, or bones from roast or boiled meats, can be added to your stock
pot. A little butter is always needed in tomato soup. In making stock,
use a quart of water for every pound of meat and bone. Cut the meat in
pieces, crack the bones, place all in the kettle, pour over it the
proper quantity of cold water; let it soak a while on the back of the
range before cooking. Let soup boil slowly, never hard, (an hour for
each pound of meat) strain through a sieve or coarse cloth. Never let
the fat remain on your soup. Let get cold and lift it off, or skim it
off hot."


BROWN STOCK.

MRS. W. COOK.

Four pounds shin of beef, or other meats and bones--four carrots, four
onions, one turnip, one small head of celery, one half tablespoonful of
salt, one half teaspoonful of peppercorns, six cloves, five pints of
cold water. Cut up the meat bone and place it in a large saucepan, pour
over the water, skim when boiling, prepare the vegetables, add them to
the saucepan; cover closely and boil slowly four hours. The spice should
be added with the vegetables.


CREAM OF CELERY SOUP.

MRS. ERNEST F. WURTELE.

One quart chicken or veal broth; one quart milk; one half cupful rice;
one teaspoonful salt; one head celery; seasoning. Use for this soup a
quart of chicken or veal broth and about a quart of milk; pick over and
wash the rice, rinse it well in cold water, and put it in a thick
saucepan over the fire with a pint of milk and a teaspoonful of salt;
wash a head of celery and grate the white stalks, letting the grated
celery fall into milk enough to cover it; put the grated celery with the
rice and gently simmer them together until the rice is tender enough to
rub through a sieve with a potato masher, adding more milk if the rice
absorbs what has first been put with it. After the rice has been rubbed
through the sieve, return it to the saucepan, place it again over the
fire, and gradually stir with it the quart of stock or broth; if this
quantity of stock does not dilute the soup to a creamy consistency, add
a little milk; let the soup get scalding hot, season it with salt, white
pepper, and a very little grated nutmeg, and serve at once.


CELERY SOUP.

MRS. STOCKING.

Four large potatoes, three large onions, six or eight stalks of celery.
Chop all the vegetables very fine, and place in an earthern kettle and
cover with boiling water, stir often till cooked, then add one quart of
milk and let boil; add butter, pepper and salt to taste. This receipt
will serve six persons.


CHICKEN CREAM SOUP.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE.

Take the carcase of a roast chicken or turkey, break the bones, and
cover with a quart of cold water and simmer for two hours adding
boiling water, to keep the original quantity. Strain and return to
kettle, add one chopped onion, two grated raw potatoes, one half small
turnip grated, and one half cup rice. Boil until rice is very soft.
Strain again, and return to kettle and let boil, and add one pint milk,
one teaspoon cornstarch rubbed smooth in a tablespoon butter and a
little salt and pepper, serve hot.


CONSOMME √Ä LA TOLEDO--CLEAR SOUP.

MISS STEVENSON.

One quart stock, two eggs, two gherkins, a little red and green
colouring, two tablespoonfuls cream, whites and shells of two eggs, one
wine glass of sherry, and a little nutmeg. Beat the two whole eggs, pour
over them the cream (hot.) Season the custard with pepper, salt and
nutmeg, colour half red and half green, pour both parts into buttered
tins, poach in hot water until firm. Beat the whites and shells of eggs
with a little cold water, add them to the stock, pour it into a saucepan
and whisk over the fire till boiling; draw on one side and simmer ten
minutes. Cut the custard in shapes, rinse then in warm water, shred the
gherkins, strain the soup, add the wine and garnishing just before
serving.


CAULIFLOWER SOUP.

One cauliflower, two yolks of egg, one half pint of cream, one quart
chicken stock. Boil together the stock and cauliflower, for twenty
minutes, take out the cauliflower, put aside some of the best parts,
pass remainder through a sieve, mix together the yolks and cream, add
them to the soup, put all in a saucepan and stir over the fire until it
begins to thicken, put the pieces of cauliflower into a tureen and pour
the soup over them; the stock used in this soup is better without any
other vegetables.


FISH SOUP.

Two pounds of raw fish, one tablespoonful parsley, one and one half
ounces butter, one ounce flour of rice, one half pint milk, one quart of
water, pepper, and salt. Boil together the bones and skin of fish for
half an hour. Strain, melt butter in a saucepan, stir into it the flour,
add strained water from the pan. Cut up the fish into small pieces, add
it, also salt and pepper, boil slowly ten minutes, add parsley at last
minute.


GIBLET SOUP.

MISS BEEMER.

Giblets from two or three fowls; two quarts of water; one of stock; two
tablespoons of butter, ditto of flour; salt, pepper, and onion if
desired. Put giblets on to boil in the water and boil gently till
reduced to one quart (about two hours); take out the giblets, cut off
tough parts and chop fine the remainder. Return to the liquor and add
stock. Cook butter and flour together until a rich brown, and add to
the soup; season, cook gently half an hour; stir in half a cup of bread
crumbs and in a few minutes serve hot.


KIDNEY SOUP.

MISS STEVENSON.

One ox kidney, one quart second stock or water, one tablespoon Hardy
sauce, one tablespoon mushroom ketchup, one ounce butter, one ounce rice
flour, pepper, salt and cayenne. Wash and dry the kidney, cut into thin
slices; mix together the flour, pepper and salt and roll the kidney in
it. Brown them quickly in the butter, pour over the stock, skim when
boiling. Add sauce and simmer slowly two hours.


LENTIL SOUP.

MRS. THEOPHILUS OLIVER.

One half pound of lentils, one carrot, one onion, one ounce dripping,
salt, pepper corns, one quart of water, one tablespoon of flour. Soak
the lentils all night, wash well, scrape carrot, and onion cut up. Put
the dripping into a saucepan, when warm, put in vegetables, lentils and
flour. Stir for five minutes until all fat is absorbed, add the water
warm, some herbs tied in a bit of muslin. Boil for an hour or more. Rub
through a sieve, return to saucepan. Reheat and serve.


OX TAIL SOUP.

MRS. W. COOK.

Divide an ox tail into lengths of an inch and a half; melt an ounce of
butter in a stew pan and fry the pieces in this, turning them about for
five minutes. Add two quarts of stock or water and bring gently to a
boil. Throw in a teaspoonful of salt, and carefully remove the scum as
it rises. Add a carrot, a turnip and an onion with two cloves stuck in
it, a little celery, a blade of mace and a small bouquet of garum. Stew
gently two and one half hours. Strain the soup and put the pieces of ox
tail in cold water to free them of fat. Mix an ounce and one half of
flour smoothly with a little cold water, add to the stock and simmer for
twenty minutes. Add a little cayenne, a few drops of lemon juice and a
glass of port wine if liked and serve.


OYSTER SOUP.

MISS MIRIAM STRANG.

One quart boiling water, one quart milk, stir in one teacup rolled
cracker crumbs, season with pepper and salt to taste. When all come to a
boil add one quart of oysters; stir well so as to keep from scorching,
then add a piece of butter size of an egg; let it boil up just once,
then remove from the fire immediately.


CREAM OF PEA SOUP.

MISS RUTH SCOTT.

One tin of peas and one pint of water, a very small piece of onion, let
it boil about twenty minutes, strain and mash through sieve. Two
tablespoonfuls of butter, and one of flour, well blended together. Add
that to the peas. Last of all add a pint or _more of boiling milk_. Put
on the stove till it thickens, but be careful not to let it boil.


PALESTINE SOUP.

MRS. W. COOK.

Wash and pare two pounds of artichokes and put them in a stewpan with a
slice of butter, two or three strips of bacon rind, which have been
scalded and scraped and two bay leaves. Put the lid on the stew pan and
let the vegetables "sweat" over the fire for eight or ten minutes,
shaking the pan occasionally to keep them from sticking. Pour on water
to cover the artichokes and stew gently till soft. Rub them through a
sieve, mix the liquor they were boiled in with them, make the soup hot
and add boiling milk until it is as thick as double cream. Add pepper
and salt to taste. Just before serving, mix with the soup a quarter of a
pint of hot cream. This addition will be a valuable one, but may be
dispensed with.


PUREE DE PETIT POIS.

MISS STEVENSON.

One pint green peas, two yolks of egg, one gill cream, one and one half
pints stock, salt and pepper. Strain the liquid from the peas, put them
with the stock in a saucepan and simmer twenty minutes; pass them
through a sieve, pour back to the pan, add yolks, cream, pepper and
salt, and stir over the fire until it begins to thicken; do not allow it
to boil. A spray of mint boiled with the peas is a great improvement.


PUREE DE VEAU.

Four ounces pounded veal, one pint stock, one ounce butter, one ounce
flour, yolks of two eggs, few drops of lemon juice, one half pint
whipped cream. Mix veal and butter together in a saucepan, add flour,
then by degrees the stock (hot) just boil up. Mix yolks and add little
by little the cream, a few drops of cochineal, salt and pepper, pour
over this the contents of the saucepan very carefully.


TOMATO SOUP.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

One pint of stewed tomatoes, add a pinch of soda, stir till it ceases
foaming, then add one pint boiling water and one pint of milk, strain
and put on the stove and when near boiling, add a tablespoonful of
cornstarch, wet it with a little cold milk, one tablespoon butter, a
little pepper and salt to taste.


TOMATO SOUP.

MISS EDITH HENRY.

Take a tin of tomatoes and add half a pint of water. Let this boil for
half an hour till the tomatoes are well broken. Add a tablespoonful of
cornstarch, dissolved in a little cold water and mix well. Flavor with
salt and pepper to taste, and half a small onion. Then add a quart of
milk. Let this boil and stir well, so that it will mix, and be careful
that it does not burn on the bottom of the pan.


TURKISH SOUP.

MRS. W. COOK.

One quart of white stock, one half teacupful of rice, yolks of two eggs,
one tablespoon cream, salt and pepper. In preparing this soup boil first
the rice in the stock for twenty minutes. Then pass the whole through a
wire sieve, rubbing through such of the rice as may stick with a spoon,
then stir it thoroughly to beat out such lumps as the rice may have
formed and return all to the saucepan. The yolk of egg, cream, pepper
and salt, must now be well beaten together and added to the stock and
rice, the whole stirred over the fire for two minutes, care being taken
to prevent boiling after the eggs are put in, or they will curdle. This
soup should be served very hot and is excellent.


TURTLE BEAN SOUP.

MISS FRASER.

One pint of black beans, boil in two quarts of water, one onion, two
carrots, small teaspoon of allspice, five or six cloves, a small bit of
bacon or ham. A good bone of roast beef or mutton, let all boil till
quite tender perhaps two hours. Then turn into a colander, take out the
bone and rub all the rest with a wooden spoon through the colander, if
this is too thick add some stock or water. Some meat balls can be
added.




FISH AND OYSTERS.


    "Now good digestion wait on appetite,
     And health on both."--MACBETH.


RULE FOR SELECTING FISH.

If the gills are red, the eyes full, and the whole fish firm and stiff,
they are fresh and good; if on the contrary, the gills are pale, the
eyes sunken, the flesh flabby, they are stale.


BAKED CODFISH.

MRS. DAVID BELL.

Choose a good sized fresh codfish, prepare it for cooking without
beheading it, fill the inside with a dressing of bread crumbs, a finely
chopped onion, a little chopped suet, pepper and salt and moisten all
with an egg. Sew up the fish and bake, basting with butter or dripping.
If butter, beware of too much salt.


BAKED CODFISH.

MRS. R. M. STOCKING.

Pick very fine one cup of codfish; soak several hours in cold water;
have ready two cups of mashed potatoes and mix well with one egg, a cup
of milk, one half cup of butter, little salt and pepper; put this in a
baking dish and cover the top with bread crumbs; moisten with milk; bake
one-half hour.


CURRIED FISH.

MRS. W. COOK.

One pound cooked white fish, one apple, two ounces of butter, one onion,
one pint of fish stock, one tablespoon curry-powder, one tablespoon
flour, one teaspoon lemon juice or vinegar, salt and pepper, six ounces
of rice. Slice the apple and onion, and brown them in a pan with a
little butter, stir in them the flour and curry powder, add the stock by
degrees; skim when boiling and simmer slowly one half hour, stir in them
the lemon juice, also a very small teaspoon sugar; strain and return to
the saucepan, cut up the fish into neat pieces, and put them into the
saucepan also, when quite hot dish with a border of rice.


FISH CREAM.

MRS. J. G. SCOTT.

One can of salmon, one quart of milk, one cup of flour, one cup of
butter, three eggs, one cupful of bread crumbs, one half cupful grated
cheese, one onion, one bunch of parsley, two bay leaves. Take the canned
salmon, or boil a fish, and when cool take out the bones and break the
fish in small pieces. Put on to boil one quart of milk, an onion, a
bunch of parsley, and two bay leaves; after boiling strain through a
colander, then add a cup of flour mixed smooth with cold milk and a cup
of butter; beat up three eggs and pour into the mixture. Put in a baking
dish alternate layers of fish and cream until the dish is full, putting
cream top and bottom. Place on top one cup of bread crumbs and one half
cup of grated cheese. Salt to taste, and cayenne pepper. Bake twenty
minutes.


FISH MOULD.

MRS. A. COOK.

Boil a fresh haddock, remove the bones and pick it in pieces, soak some
bread in milk; put the fish, bread, a small piece of butter, one or two
eggs, pepper and salt together in a bowl and beat them well together.
Put the mixture in a mould and steam, turn out, and garnish with
parsley. Tomato sauce is nice poured round the mould when turned out.
The fish should be about twice the quantity of the bread.


TOMATO SAUCE.

Six tomatoes, two ounces butter, one half ounce flour, one half pint
stock, one teaspoon of salt, one fourth teaspoon of pepper. Place the
tomatoes in a pan and pour over them the stock, add salt and pepper.
Place the pan over the fire and cook all slowly for half an hour. Place
a wire sieve over a basin and rub the tomatoes and stock through the
sieve. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour stir well together,
pour over the tomatoes and stock and stir all over the fire till
boiling, when the sauce is ready for use. Tinned tomatoes do not take so
long to boil.


FISH SCALLOP.

MISS RUTH SCOTT.

Remains of cold fish of any sort, one half pint of cream, one half
tablespoonful anchovy sauce, one half teaspoonful made mustard, one half
teaspoonful walnut ketchup, pepper and salt, bread crumbs. Put all the
ingredients into a stew pan, carefully picking the fish from the bones;
set it on the fire, let it remain till nearly hot, and stir
occasionally. Then put in a deep dish, with bread and small bits of
butter on top; put in the oven till nearly browned. Serve hot.


FISH PIE.

MRS. ANDREW THOMSON.

Boil one haddock, take the best part of the fish, one pint of milk and a
piece of butter as large as an egg, half a cup of flour, two yolks of
eggs, stir together, and then mix well with the fish. Put in a pudding
dish, and take a half cup of bread crumbs, half a cup of grated cheese,
put in the oven for ten minutes, salt and pepper to taste.


POTTED HERRINGS.

MRS. DAVID BELL.

Scale and clean fresh herrings, then taking the fish by the tail you can
easily remove the backbone drawing it towards the head. The smaller
bones will melt in the vinegar; remove the heads and roll each fish up,
tail end inside, and wind a thread round each roll, lay them in the
vessel they are to remain in till used, a stone earthernware crock is
best. Make scalding hot with spices as much vinegar as will cover them,
pour it over the fish and keep them hot about the stove for about an
hour, when they will be well cooked through; do not let them boil or
they will break. Keep in a cool place. Spices: whole white pepper, whole
allspice, and a blade of mace if it is liked.


LOBSTER CUTLETS.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

Mince the lobster fine, and season with pepper and salt, make good and
thick with drawn butter. Mix with the lobster enough to make it stick
together. Shape with the hands into cutlets, roll in bread crumbs and
fry in hot lard.

_The Sauce:_--Make rather a thin custard, season with pepper, salt and a
little nutmeg and chopped parsley, place over the cutlets.


LOBSTER STEW.

MRS. ERNEST F. WURTELE.

Take a boiled lobster and split it open, cut the meat into small pieces
and put into a saucepan with one pint of milk; when boiling add two
tablespoons of flour dissolved in a little water, and boil ten minutes.
Season with salt, pepper and a small piece of butter. Just before
serving pour in a wineglassful of sherry. Canned lobster may be used
with very good results.


OYSTER PIE.--FAMOUS.

One cup melted butter is put in a lined saucepan, and three tablespoons
of flour which are rubbed well into the butter, one half teaspoon of
mace, a little pepper and salt. The juice of the oysters is put into
this to make it thin, and little by little one quart of boiling milk to
one quart of oysters. Last the oysters are put in very carefully and
given a very short boil. The whole is pretty thick and is then put into
a pie dish with pie crust over; one cup of cream is put in just before
the oysters are emptied into the pie dish.


OYSTER PIE OR PATTIES.

MISS M. A. RITCHIE.

Crust:--One pound of butter, one pound of flour, one half cup of water.
Sauce:--One tablespoonful of butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one
cup of cream or milk, one pint of oysters.


ESCALOPED OYSTERS.

MADAME J. T.

Butter the dish; cover the bottom of the dish with bread crumbs, add a
layer of oysters, season with pepper and salt, then bread crumbs and
oysters until you have three layers. Finish with crumbs, cover the top
with small pieces of butter, bake half an hour.


CREAMED OYSTERS ON TOAST.

MRS. R. M. STOCKING.

One quart of milk, two tablespoons flour three tablespoons butter,
pepper and salt. Put milk in double boiler, mix butter and flour
thoroughly, adding a little cold milk before stirring into the hot milk;
cook: One pint of oysters, let simmer in their liquor for about five
minutes, then skim out, drop into the cream sauce. Prepare thin slices
of crisp toast, lay on heated platter; pour over creamed oysters, serve
at once. Delicious.


OYSTER CROQUETTES.

MISS STEVENSON.

Twenty-five oysters, one dessertspoonful chopped parsley, three ounces
butter, one and one half ounces flour, one gill milk or cream, one
teaspoon lemon juice, one egg, three tablespoons bread crumbs, salt and
pepper. Boil the oysters in their own liquor five minutes, cut them in
rough pieces, melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add
cream by degrees, also oyster liquor, boil two minutes, add then the
parsley, pepper, and salt, put in the oysters and allow the mixture to
cool. Form it then into croquettes on a slightly floured board. Roll in
the beaten egg and bread crumbs and fry in hot fat two minutes.


MOULDED SALMON.

MISS MARION STOWELL POPE.

One tin of salmon chopped, one cup fine bread crumbs, four eggs broken
in four tablespoons melted butter, one teaspoon chopped parsley, pepper
and salt to taste. Put into a plain buttered mould and sprinkle with
flour, cover and steam one hour.

_Sauce for the above:_--One teaspoon cornstarch, a little butter, one
and one half cups of milk, pepper, salt and nutmeg to taste. A little
tomato ketchup or anchovy sauce added. When it comes to the boil, add
one well beaten egg; pour round the mould and serve hot.


CREAMED SALMON.

MISS H. BARCLAY.

One can salmon minced fine, draw off the liquor. For the dressing, boil
one pint milk, two tablespoons butter, salt and pepper to taste. Have
ready one pint of bread crumbs, place a layer in the bottom of the dish,
then a layer of fish, then a layer of dressing, and so on, leaving
crumbs for the last layer, and bake till brown.




MEATS.


MEATS.

MRS. DAVID BELL.

To make beefsteak tender, rub a pinch of baking soda on each side of the
steak about an hour before cooking and roll it up on itself in the
meantime. A very small pinch of brown sugar used in the same way is
good, but the soda is thought preferable.


MEAT BALLS.

MRS. WADDLE.

Mash finely some potatoes, pass through a sieve, stir in the yolks of
two eggs, one ounce of butter, pepper and salt. Mince finely some beef
or tongue. Mix all well together, add a little parsley, roll into balls,
cover with egg and bread crumbs, fry in hot lard. Let them dry before
the fire on paper. Very good.


SPICED BEEF.

Rub well into a round weighing forty pounds, three ounces saltpetre, let
stand six or eight hours, pound three ounces allspice, one pound black
pepper, two pounds salt, and seven ounces brown sugar; rub the beef well
with the salt and spices. Let it remain fourteen days turning it every
day and rub with the pickle, then wash off the spices and put in a deep
pan, cut small six pounds of suet, put some in the bottom of the pan,
the greater part on the top, cover with coarse paste and bake eight
hours; when cold take off the paste pour off the gravy, it will keep six
months.


SPICED BEEF.

MISS J. E. FRASER.

Two pounds of raw steak from the round, free from bone, fat or sinew,
chopped very fine, six soda biscuits rolled fine, one cup of milk, two
eggs beaten in one tablespoon salt, one dessertspoon of pepper, and add
a little spice if you like. Butter an earthenware jar as large round the
top as the bottom and press the mixture in very lightly. Cover with
butter one half inch thick. Cover the jar with a plate and bake in an
oven for two hours. Serve whole or cut in slices. Nicer cold.


BEEF √Ä LA MODE.

MRS. I. T. SMYTHE.

One half pound of meat, cut up into four inch squares and two or three
inches thick, add onion chopped fine, one teaspoon salt, and one half
teaspoon pepper, cover with boiling water and place in jar and cook in
oven for two hours.


BEEF OLIVES.

MRS. GEORGE M. CRAIG.

Thin slices of steak cut into squares about the size of hand; make a
dressing similar to chicken, bake, then put on the steak and roll, put
in the saucepan with some onion and butter in a little water, let it
simmer for an hour and a half to two hours.


COLD MEAT CUTLETS.

MRS. A. COOK.

Half pound cold meat or chicken, one ounce butter, one ounce of flour,
one gill white stock, one teaspoon chopped parsley, one half saltspoon
grated nutmeg, small teaspoon of salt, saltspoon of pepper, grated rind
of half a small lemon. Pass chicken twice through the mincer, then melt
the butter, stir into it the flour, get it perfectly smooth and add
stock, don't let it brown, stir until it boils and boil two minutes, add
the chicken, (when properly cooked will leave the pan clearly) add
pepper, salt, nutmeg, parsley and lemon, put it away to cool. In using
cold beef, a teaspoon anchovy essence or paste is an improvement, and to
mutton a teaspoon mushroom catsup. When the mixture is cold, place some
flour on board to prevent sticking and form into rolls with square
edges, beat the egg, place breadcrumbs mixed with pepper and salt on
paper, put the rolls first in the egg, then in crumbs, have sufficient
fat in pan and when the white smoke rises, put the rolls in and fry
three minutes, drain on paper. Brown sauce may be served and mashed peas
or potatoes placed in the centre.


CURED MUTTON HAMS.

MRS. W. COOK.

Quarter of a pound bay salt, ditto of common salt, one ounce saltpetre,
four ounces brown sugar, one ounce allspice, four ounces black pepper
(whole), the allspice or one ounce of coriander seed must be bruised not
ground, one quart of water: boil all together a few minutes and rub on
hot. In three weeks the hams will be ready to hang if well rubbed with
the pickle everyday. Sufficient pickle for two.


BRAISED MUTTON.

MRS. ARCHIE COOK.

One boned shoulder of mutton, four ounces of bread crumbs, two ounces of
suet, rind of half a lemon, bunch of mixed vegetables, one tablespoon
chopped parsley, other herbs if liked, one egg, a little milk, one
teaspoon of salt, half teaspoon of pepper. Chop suet finely (or fat from
mutton will do) add breadcrumbs, parsley, grated lemon rind and salt,
moisten with egg and milk. Place mixture in mutton, roll up and tie
securely. Slice vegetables and put them with bones in saucepan also two
cloves, a bay leaf and peppercorns, pour over them a pint of stock or
water, place mutton on top and boil slowly about one and one half hours
according to size of meat, then brush it over with glaze or sprinkle
with flour, pepper and salt and bake it half an hour. Place on a dish,
pour fat from pan and stir in half ounce of flour (browned) add stock in
which meat was cooked, also one tablespoon mushroom catsup and one
tablespoon Worcester sauce, pepper and salt, boil two minutes and strain
around meat. Vegetables in stock can be cut to ornament the dish.


GENUINE IRISH STEW.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE.

Take the feet and legs of a pig, cut off at the hams, two will be
sufficient for a family of eight. Singe off the hair and thoroughly
cleanse them, removing the toes by scorching. Cut the legs in pieces
suitable for stewing, put down in cold water and cook slowly for three
hours. Pare and cut up nine or ten good sized potatoes and add to your
stew with salt and pepper, about one half an hour before dishing. After
the potatoes have been put in, the greatest care must be taken to
prevent them from sticking to the pot and burning, therefore you must
stir frequently with a spoon. What remains from dinner pour into a mould
and it will become a jelly, which is nice eaten cold for breakfast.


TO STEW A FRESH TONGUE.

MRS. ARCHIE COOK.

Wash it very well and rub it well with common salt and a little
saltpetre; let it lie two or three days; then boil till the skin will
peel off; put it into a saucepan with part of the liquor it has boiled
in and a pint of good stock, season with black and Jamaica pepper, two
or three pounded cloves. Add a glassful of white wine, a tablespoonful
of mushroom catsup and one of lemon pickle, thicken with butter rolled
in flour. Stew the tongue till quite soft in this sauce; the wine can be
added when dished or left out if preferred.


LAMBS' TONGUES STEWED.

MRS. ARCHIE COOK.

Six tongues, three heaping tablespoons of butter, one large onion, two
slices of carrot, three slices of white turnip, three tablespoons flour,
one of salt, a little pepper, one quart of stock or water and some sweet
herbs. Boil the tongues one hour and a half in clear water, take them
up, cover with cold water, and draw off the skins. Put the butter,
onion, turnip and carrot in the stewpan and cook slowly for fifteen
minutes, then add the flour and cook until brown, stirring all the time.
Stir the stock into this and when it boils up, add the tongues, salt,
pepper and herbs; simmer gently for two hours. Cut the carrots, turnips
and potatoes into cubes. Boil the potatoes in salted water ten minutes
and the carrots and turnips one hour. Place the tongues in the centre of
a hot dish, arrange the vegetables around them, strain the gravy, over
all. Garnish with parsley.


ROAST FILLET OF VEAL.

MRS. RATTRAY.

Take a good sized, white, fat leg of veal, weighing some ten or twelve
pounds. Remove the meat carefully from the bone and take out the bone.
Then pin the meat securely into a nice round with skewers; fill the
cavity from which the bone was taken with the following dressing. Roast
in a slow oven, allowing one quarter of an hour for each pound, and be
sure to keep it thoroughly basted with plenty of beef dripping.


DRESSING.

Make ready one coffee cup of bread crumbs, one teaspoonful of chopped
parsley, one half teaspoonful summer savory, pepper and salt to taste.
Take a good sized onion, peel, slice, and fry it well with a piece of
butter the size of an egg; pour the liquor from this into your bread
crumbs and blend all thoroughly together. Be careful not to put the
onion in, only the fried butter and onion juice. When the meat is
cooked, remove from pan and make a rich brown gravy to serve with it.
Garnish your dish with fried bacon and slices of lemon.


STUFFING FOR VEAL.

MRS. W. CLINT.

Chop half a pound of beef suet very fine, put in a basin, with eight
ounces of bread crumbs, four ounces of chopped parsley, a tablespoonful
of equal quantities of powdered thyme and marjoram, the rind of a lemon
grated, the juice of half a one; season with pepper and salt, and a
quarter of a nutmeg; mix the whole with two eggs; this will do also for
turkey or baked fish.


YORKSHIRE PUDDING.

MRS. GEORGE CRESSMAN.

Two eggs, four tablespoonfuls of flour, a little salt and milk to make a
batter the thickness of cream. When the beef is roasted pour off the
boiling dripping into another pan, turn in the batter and bake to a good
brown.




GAME.


ACCOMPANIMENTS.--With wild ducks, cucumber sauce, currant jelly or
cranberry sauce.


ROAST DUCK WITH APPLES.

MISS BEEMER.

Pluck and singe a duck, draw it without breaking the intestines, wipe it
with a wet towel and lay it in a baking pan; wipe a dozen small sour
apples with a wet cloth, cut out the cores without breaking the apples,
and arrange them around the duck; put the pan into a hot oven and
quickly brown the duck, then moderate the heat of the oven and continue
the cooking for about twenty minutes, or until the apples are tender but
not broken, baste both duck and apples every five minutes until they are
done, and then serve them on the same dish. It is a great improvement
some think, to parboil the duck for fifteen minutes with an onion in the
water, and the strong fishy flavor that is sometimes so disagreeable in
wild ducks will have disappeared. A carrot will answer the same purpose.


ROAST QUAIL WITH BREAD SAUCE.

Peel and slice an onion and put it over the fire in a pint of milk;
pluck and singe half a dozen quail, draw them without breaking the
intestines, cut off the heads and feet, and wipe them with a wet towel;
rub them all over with butter; season them with pepper and salt, and
roast them before a very hot fire for fifteen minutes basting them three
or four times with butter. Have some slices of toast laid under them to
catch the drippings. While the birds are roasting make a bread sauce as
follows; roll a pint bowlfull of dry bread, and sift the crumbs; use the
finest ones for the sauce, and the largest for the frying later; remove
the onion from the milk in which it has been boiling, stir into the milk
the finest portion of the crumbs, season it with a saltspoonful of white
pepper and a grate of nutmeg, stir in a tablespoonful of butter, and
stir the sauce until it is smooth; then place the saucepan containing it
in a pan of boiling water to keep it hot; put two tablespoonfuls of
butter over the fire in a frying pan, and when it is smoking hot put
into it the coarse half of the crumbs, dust them with cayenne pepper,
and stir them until they are light brown; then at once put them on a hot
dish; put the bread sauce into a gravy-boat ready to send it to the
table. Arrange to have the fried breadcrumbs, sauce and quail done at
the same time; serve the birds on the toast which has been laid under
them; in serving the quail, lay each bird on a hot plate, pour over it a
large spoonful of the bread sauce and on that place a spoonful of the
fried bread crumbs.


VENISON STEAK.

MRS. ERNEST F. WURTELE.

Take a piece of frozen venison, and put into water in which has been put
two tablespoons of vinegar. Just leave until the ice comes to the
surface of the meat, take the meat out and remove the ice with a knife;
wipe dry and flour well, put a good piece of butter in the pan; let
brown, put the steak in salt, and pepper, fry on both sides, then add a
cup of rich milk, push the pan to the back of the stove and cover it and
let it stew slowly for one and a half hours--If the steak is very dry
lard it with salt pork before frying.


STEWED PIGEONS.

MRS. HARRY LAURIE.

For two pair of pigeons stuff first with bread, summer savory, butter,
pepper, salt. Put eight or nine slices of fat pork, in an iron pot to
fry, until the pork is well browned, then take it out and put in the
pigeons and let brown thoroughly, keep turning to prevent burning. Then
add one pint of stock, season if required, put back slices of pork and
let stew for an hour and a half (at least) quietly. If gravy is not
thick enough, add a tablespoon of brown flour. About quarter of an hour
before done, put in a can of green peas--Then serve.


STEWED HARE.

Can be prepared in the same manner as the above for stewed pigeons, with
the addition of spices: cloves a few, and a little more of cinnamon.


BREAD SAUCE.

MRS. BENSON BENNETT.

One half pint boiled milk to one cup of fine bread crumbs, one small
onion, two cloves, one piece of mace, salt to taste, let simmer five
minutes, add small piece of butter.


CRANBERRY JELLY.

Pare, quarter, and core twelve good sized tart apples, place in a
porcelain kettle with two quarts of cranberries, cover well with cold
water and stew until soft, then strain through a jelly bag, add to this
juice two pounds of confectioner's sugar, and boil as you would any
other jelly, until it falls from the skimmer; when you dip it in skim
off any froth that arises while boiling, put in moulds and let it get
firm before using.


PLAIN DRESSING FOR FOWLS.

MRS. W. CLINT.

One cup and a half of bread crumbs (not too stale), one heaped teaspoon
each of parsley, thyme and savory, one dessert spoonful butter, half
teaspoon salt, quarter of a teaspoon pepper, mix all together with a
little milk.


PLAIN DRESSING FOR GEESE AND DUCKS.

One cup breadcrumbs or potatoes, one cup or more of stewed onions, one
tablespoon sage, pepper, salt and a little butter, mix with a little
milk.




VEGETABLES.


    "Cheerful cooks make every dish a feast."--MASSINGER.


Always have the water boiling when you put your vegetables in, and keep
it constantly boiling until they are done. Cook each kind by itself when
convenient. All vegetables should be well seasoned.


APPLES.

MRS. DAVID BELL.

When the barrel of apples you have bought, begins to make your mind
uneasy, because they can spoil faster than you can use them, a good plan
is to peel, core and stir them with a very little sugar and screw them
down in your jam jars. They will keep for a couple of months and will be
handy to fill a tart or as apple sauce, etc.; they do not need to be
cooked too much and some of the firmer sorts may remain in quarters
solid enough for a pie. Another plan is to peel but not core the
suspicious ones, then let them freeze solid, when frozen pack them in a
box and cover. Keep them where they will not thaw. When you wish for a
dish of baked apples, put them in your baking pan, scatter a little
sugar over them and put them in a quick oven without letting them thaw,
when done, they should each be whole and a pretty brown color.


BEANS.

Beans are a nice winter vegetable, but cooked with pork as "baked
beans," are too strong for daily use, but are a desirable article of
food cooked more plainly. Choose the small white beans, put them in a
saucepan with as much cold water, as will cover them well and a small
pinch of baking soda; when they have simmered a few minutes drain off
the water and replace it with hot water and a little salt; if possible
let them cook without boiling hard; when tender drain, and dish with a
liberal piece of butter and a dust of pepper. They are also good thrown
when drained into the frying pan with some dripping, pepper and salt,
and heated a few minutes over the fire. The only attention they require
in cooking is lest they melt into soup when nearly cooked.


FRIED BEETS.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE.

Boil until tender, slice and put in stewpan with a teaspoon of vinegar,
half the juice of a lemon, one half teaspoonful each sugar and salt, a
grate of nutmeg and a dash of pepper. Add two tablespoonfuls of stock, a
teaspoon butter, and let simmer one half hour.


CREAMED CABBAGE.

MISS J. E. FRASER.

Cut a medium sized cabbage in quarters. Take out the stem, put into a
kettle of boiling water, cook for ten minutes, drain and cover with cold
water. This will destroy the odor so unpleasant. When cold, chop fine,
season with salt and pepper. Make a sauce of two tablespoons of butter,
one tablespoon flour, mix smooth, add one pint of milk; cook in this
sauce slowly for three quarters of an hour.


STEWED CUCUMBERS.

MRS. DAVID BELL.

Peel a nice straight cucumber, cut in four lengthwise, scoop out all
seeds, and cut it in pieces about three inches long; throw these into a
saucepan of boiling water with a little salt. When they bend under the
touch, they are done, drain in a sieve, then put in a stewpan with a
good sized piece of butter, finely chopped parsley salt and pepper. Toss
over the fire till thoroughly heated through and serve in a hot dish.


OYSTER CABBAGE.

MRS. D. M. COOK.

Mince fine one half a cabbage, boil for ten minutes and strain off
water. Then cover cabbage with milk and let come to a boil, add rolled
cracker crumbs, butter size of a walnut, salt and pepper to taste.


CORN OMELET.

Boil one half dozen ears of corn, cut corn from the cob; beat four eggs
separately, add to the corn the beaten yolks, salt and pepper, put in
the whites last, fry in a pan with plenty of butter.


MACARONI AND CHEESE.

MISS H. BARCLAY.

Boil quarter of a pound of macaroni in water, for half an hour, cool and
chop. Make a sauce of one tablespoonful butter, one dessertspoon of
flour, half pint milk, one teaspoonful of mustard. Boil one minute; mix
all together with three ounces of grated cheese. Put in a shallow dish
sprinkling top with cheese. Bake a golden brown and garnish with toast.


MACARONI.

MRS. THOM.

One half pound macaroni, one half pound cheese, one quarter pound of
butter, pint of milk, mustard and cayenne. Boil macaroni in salt and
water until tender, drain and lay in dish. Put pint of milk on fire,
just before boiling, add one tablespoon flour, rubbed smooth in a little
cold milk, butter, nearly all the cheese grated, mustard and cayenne.
Boil until thick as custard, then pour over macaroni, sprinkle
remainder of cheese on top with some small pieces of butter; if used
immediately bake twenty minutes, if allowed to get cold one half hour.


CREAM-BAKED ONIONS.

MRS. J. S. THOM.

Pare as many good-sized onions as required and cover with boiling water,
boil for ten minutes, then drain. Cover again with boiling water to
which add one half teaspoon of salt, and cook till tender. Drain
carefully and put the onions in a baking dish, place on each a teaspoon
of butter, add pepper and salt to taste, then fill the dish half full of
milk and cover with a layer of fine bread-crumbs. Bake till a delicate
brown.


CORN OYSTERS.

MRS. FRANK GLASS.

One pint green grated corn, two tablespoons of milk, two eggs, two
tablespoons of butter, flour to make a batter. Fry with butter.


OYSTER PANCAKES.

MRS. WADDLE.

One quart of new milk, three eggs, one half dozen green corn grated, one
half teacup melted butter, one teaspoon salt and pepper. Flour enough to
make a thin batter, fry with butter.


STIRRED POTATOES WITH EGGS.

MISS GRACE MACMILLAN.

Eight cold boiled potatoes chopped fine. Put into the saucepan a piece
of butter the size of an egg. When it melts stir in the potatoes,
stirring them till brown, then pour in four well beaten eggs, and stir
them well through the potatoes. Serve very hot.


SWEET POTATOES STUFFED.

MRS. ARCHIBALD LAURIE.

Four large sized sweet potatoes baked until tender, then cut carefully
in two. Cut a piece off each end, so they will stand, then scoop out,
leaving the skins perfect. Mash the potato fine with an egg dressing as
follows: boil four eggs hard, mash the yolks to a paste with cream to
thin, salt and pepper to taste and a little mustard if liked; with this
mixture fill the skins, place a piece of butter on top of each, and bake
until well browned. Serve in individual saucers with a small doyley
under.


POTATO FRILL.

MRS. FRANK GLASS.

Boil and mash some potatoes, working in a little milk and butter but not
enough to make the paste soft; while hot add one beaten egg. Shape this
paste into a fence on the inside round of a shallow dish, fluting it
with the round handle of a knife. Set one minute in a hot oven but not
long enough to cause the fence to crack. Glaze quickly with butter and
pour the meat carefully within the wall. The mince should not be so thin
as to wash away the frill.


POTATO PUFF.

MISS CORDELIA JACKSON.

Take two cupfuls of cold mashed potato, and stir into it six
teaspoonfuls of melted butter, beating to a white cream before adding
anything else. Then put with this two eggs, whipped very light and a
teacupful of cream or milk, salting to taste. Beat all well, pour into a
deep dish, and bake in a quick oven until it is nicely browned. If
properly mixed it will come out of the oven light, puffy and delectable.


POTATO PEARS.

MRS. J. S. THOM

Boil six or eight large potatoes, when well done mash thoroughly, adding
a little butter, cream, pepper and salt. Mould into shape of pears,
putting a clove into stem and brush over with beaten egg, and put into
the oven to brown slightly.


POTATO FRICASS√â.

MRS. J. T. SMYTHE.

Cut into thin slices one half pound of fat salt pork. Place in stewpan,
when brown, add an onion sliced and a little cold water, cook a few
minutes. Cut up a number of good sized potatoes, add this to onion and
pork and one half teaspoon of pepper. Cover well with cold water. Let
this boil hard for hours. If about half an hour before serving, it is
found not to be thick enough, take off cover and boil until it does
thicken.


PEAS WITH CREAM SAUCE.

MRS. STOCKING.

Put one quart of peas in a kettle of salted boiling water and cook
fifteen minutes; drain, put a tablespoon of butter in a saucepan, add a
tablespoon of flour, mix; add a cup of milk; stir constantly until
boiling; add salt, pepper and then the peas; stand over boiling water
about five minutes and serve as garnish to baked, broiled or fried
sweetbreads.


CREAMED RICE.

MRS. LAWRENCE.

Two thirds cup raw rice, one quart of milk, one half cup sugar, flavor
with grated rind of lemon or nutmeg. Cook in a pie dish in moderate oven
for one and half hour.


TO BOIL RICE.

MISS M. SAMPSON.

Have enough boiling water with a pinch of salt to more than cover the
rice, boil for twenty minutes, do not stir, strain through a collander
when cooked, and serve.


SPINACH ON TOAST.

MRS. FRANK GLASS.

Cook twenty minutes in boiling salted water. Drain and chop fine. Put a
tablespoon of butter into a saucepan with a teaspoon of sugar, a pinch
of nutmeg, pepper and salt. Stir in the spinach and beat smooth while it
heats; at the last, add one tablespoonful of cream or two of milk. Pour
upon crustless slices of buttered toast laid upon a flat dish.


VEGETABLE MARROW.

MRS. DAVID BELL.

Cut in slices half an inch thick, peel and remove the spongy portion;
fry in hot dripping or butter, pepper and salt; also nice to make a
light batter and dip the slices in, afterwards frying a golden brown.




ENTR√âES AND MEATS R√âCHAUFF√â.


BEEF CROQUETTES.

MISS FRANCIS FRY.

Two cups beef (minced fine), one cup stock, two pounds flour, one pound
butter, one teaspoon lemon juice or vinegar, ditto of onion and salt,
one half teaspoon pepper, two eggs, bread or biscuit crumbs. Make a
thick sauce by cooking flour and butter; add gradually stock and lemon
juice, season; add chopped meat with the onion and one egg. Cook five
minutes and turn out to cool. Form into shape roll in beaten egg and
crumbs, and fry in boiling lard.


CREAM OF CHICKEN.

MRS. ARCHIE COOK.

Pound three quarters of a pound of chicken, veal or rabbit until quite
smooth, then pound one half pound of panada (bread soaked in hot milk),
and mix the two together, add two tablespoonfuls of thick soubise
sauce, an ounce and a quarter butter, two tablespoons sherry, a little
pepper and salt and three whole eggs. Pass the mixture through a fine
wire sieve and then add two tablespoons of thick cream. Butter some
small timbale moulds and fill them with the mixture, remembering to hit
the moulds on the table after having put the mixture into them and steam
them about fifteen minutes. Turn them out carefully and serve hot.
Tomato sauce poured around them is an improvement. If preferred they can
be cold and decorated with aspic jelly and a ragout made of truffles,
cooked tongue, or ham and button mushrooms, or a little tomato salad
could be used.


SOUBISE SAUCE.

Put some onions to soak for ten minutes in boiling water. Peel them, cut
in halves or quarters. Put them in a small saucepan with a lump of fresh
butter; simmer very slowly until the onions are quite cooked, add salt
to taste; thicken with flour, or flour and fine bread crumbs, and add
cream or milk. Pass through a sieve, must be thick and smooth. Some
people like a pinch of sugar.


JELLIED CHICKEN.

MRS. ARCHIBALD LAURIE.

Take an old fowl, boil until so tender the bones will leave the meat;
set aside to cool: next day skim off the fat and boil down to one quart,
to this add one ounce of sheet gelatine previously steeped in a little
cold water. Pepper and salt to taste, with a little ground savory. Put
the meat in a pie dish and by degrees add the liquid to avoid having the
meat all in one place. This should turn out well when cold.


MAKE A DOZEN CHICKEN CROQUETTES.

MRS. ANDREW THOMSON.

White of two chickens well minced, one wineglass of sherry, one half
pint of cream, pepper and salt and a little cayenne to taste, mix well
and put into a buttered mould; steam for one hour.


CHICKEN MOULD. (Served Cold.)

MADAME J. T.

Put over one large chicken in a pint and a half of cold water, with a
medium sized onion, three stalks of celery, and a small bunch parsley.
Let simmer gently (not boil), for two hours. Then remove chicken, pick
the meat from the bones, and cut into pieces about an inch long. Put the
bones back into the broth and let this boil down to three quarters of a
pint. Add gradually two cups cream in which a tablespoonful of flour has
been dissolved. When the flour has thickened remove from fire and add
two well beaten eggs and a very little nutmeg. Garnish a mould with
slices of hard boiled egg and sprigs of parsley. Pour in chicken
mixture. Allow to set and serve on lettuce leaves. This will serve eight
people.


CURRY. (Excellent.)

MRS. W. COOK.

Take several small onions, chop them up very fine, put them into a pan
with a piece of butter, stew them over the fire until the onions are
quite dissolved and turned to a light brown. Cut meat into small pieces
and rub the curry powder well into the raw meat. Put it into a stew pan
with onion and an apple minced fine and a teaspoonful of cream, and let
it all simmer for two or three hours. It must not boil.


FISH R√âCHAUFF√â

One pound cooked fish, one tablespoon each of mushroom ketchup, essence
of anchovy, Harvey's sauce and mustard, one ounce of butter, rolled
flour and one half a pint of cream, a wall of potatoes. Divide the fish
into flakes, place it with cream and butter into a stew pan, until very
hot. Mash the potatoes, and add to them one tablespoon cream, one yolk
of egg, pepper and salt; well butter a wall mould and sprinkle with
browned bread crumbs, and place it in the oven till hot, turn it out on
a silver dish and pour the rago√ªt in the centre. Garnish with lemon and
parsley.


FISH CROQUETTES.

MISS FRY.

Mash freshly boiled potatoes, add one egg and flour to make a stiff
dough. Roll out thin and cut with a round cutter. Spread on one half
the cake chopped fish, mixed with parsley, fold over and press down the
edges. Fry in lard.


HOMINY CROQUETTES.

MRS. BENSON BENNETT.

To a cupful of cold boiled hominy, add a tablespoonful of melted butter,
and stir, moistening by degrees with a cupful of milk beating to a soft
light paste, one teacupful of white sugar, and lastly a well beaten egg.
Roll in oval balls with floured hands in egg and bread crumbs and fry in
hot lard.


POTTED HEAD.

MISS EDITH M. HENRY.

Take the shank (lower), of meat, cover with water, boil until tender
enough to cut up in dice, take off and cut the meat into dice, then
throw back into pot, flavor with pepper, salt, mace, celery seed,
cayenne pepper, allspice and cloves. Then have ready a little gelatine,
mix all through well and let boil a short time, then pour into a cold
shape.


KEGEREE.

MRS. BENSON BENNETT.

One teacup of freshly boiled rice, one half quarter of boiled salmon,
two soft boiled eggs, lump of butter, salt and pepper. Mix all
together and put it in a mould to steam.


DEVILLED LIVER.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

To three pounds of uncooked liver, one quarter of a pound of uncooked
salt pork, one half pint of bread crumbs, three tablespoons of salt, one
teaspoon of pepper, one half a teaspoon each of cayenne pepper, mace and
cloves. Mode.--Chop the liver and pork very fine, add the other
ingredients mixing well, put it into a covered mould, and set in a
saucepan of cold water, cover and place on the fire to cook two hours.
Take out the mould, uncover and let it stand in an open oven to let the
steam off. This is a cold dish.


MEAT CROQUETTES.

MADAME J. T.

One tablespoon butter, one tablespoon flour, two tablespoon of stock,
one tablespoon milk. Let boil until it thickens, then add small
teaspoonful onion juice (grated), one teaspoon lemon juice, one small
teaspoon lemon rind, pepper and salt, one grate of nutmeg. When well
blended, add one beaten up egg, cupful of chopped meat (any kind.) Let
this mixture cool in a soup plate and roll into cork shaped croquettes
with finely grated bread crumbs and fry in lard hot. Serve on a napkin
with parsley and lemon rind.


MOCK PAT√â DE FOIE GRAS.

MRS. BLAIR.

Rub the bottom of a stew-pan five times across with a piece of fresh cut
garlic, put in three pounds of larded calf's liver, with two chopped
shallots, a laurel leaf, a bay leaf, a blade of mace, four pepper corns,
two cloves, a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of loaf sugar, and
half a pint of stock: simmer gently for four hours. Then cut the liver
into thin slices, place in a basin, and cover with the liquid: let it
remain until next day. Then pound the liver to a paste, add a
tablespoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper; add three
quarters of a pound of clarified butter; pound well together and pass
through a wire sieve; put into pots; smooth over the top with a knife,
then pour over hot clarified butter or lard and keep in a cool place.


POTATO CROQUETTES.

MRS. J. G. SCOTT.

Take two cupfuls of cold mashed potatoes, beat up with two
tablespoonfuls of melted butter and three eggs, make into rolls, cover
with cracker dust, or bread crumbs and fry.


KIDNEY STEW.

MRS. SEPTIMUS BARROW.

One tablespoon flour, one half tablespoon of salt, one saltspoon pepper,
three gills stock or water, one tablespoon mushroom ketchup, two ounces
butter or bacon fat. First: Wash the kidney and remove the core--cut
into thin slices; mix together pepper, salt and flour, roll kidney in
it. Brown it quickly in the butter, then add stock or water; skim well
and cook very slowly for two hours.


STEWED SWEETBREADS.

MRS. ERNEST WURTELE.

Soak the sweetbreads in salt and water for twenty minutes, then take
them out, wipe them well, and take off the skin. Parboil them for twenty
minutes or half an hour, after which you stew them in a little milk,
till they are tender, add a little salt and pepper, make a little sauce
of the milk and serve. Use a double kettle when stewing.


COLD ENTR√âE.

MRS. FRANK DUGGAN.

An entr√©e that supplies the want of fish for luncheon. Take the contents
of one can of sardines, mince fine with a silver fork removing bits of
bone, the tails, etc., etc., add celery salt, pepper and salt to taste,
a tablespoonful of lemon juice, a quarter teaspoonful Worcester sauce, a
few drops of Harvey's sauce, the same of anchovy sauce. Add a
tablespoonful of capers. Mix the whole thoroughly with a little thick
cream, (sweet), or mayonnaise. Mould into minature pyramids and serve
on lettuce leaves: further garnish the dish with parsley. One can of
sardines will be sufficient to make four pyramids. Finely chopped celery
may be added before the mayonnaise.


STUFFED TOMATOES (HOT ENTR√âE.)

MRS. JAMES LAURIE.

Six tomatoes, three ounces cooked white meat of any kind, one small
shallot, one teaspoon chopped parsley, pepper and salt, two tablespoons
bread crumbs, one egg. Take out the centre from the tomatoes; cut the
meat into very small pieces, mix with the bread crumbs, parsley,
shallot, pepper, salt, and egg. With this fill the tomatoes, put a small
piece of butter on each and bake fifteen minutes in a good oven.


MOCK TURKEY.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

Three pounds veal, one fourth pound salt pork, finely minced cup bread
crumbs (large coffee cup), two eggs, one teaspoonful salt, same of
pepper, a little sweet herbs, steam four hours.


TURBOT √Ä LA CR√àME AU GRATIN.

MADAME J. T.

Boil one quart of milk twenty minutes, with one onion, one bunch
parsley, one bunch thyme; mix in a little cold milk, one quartercup
flour, and add gradually to boiled milk also salt, pepper and a grate
of nutmeg. When thick, remove from fire, add one quarter pound fresh
butter, the yolks two eggs, and two tablespoonfuls of grated gruyere
cheese. Pass through a coarse sieve and pour over two and one half
pounds of boiled fish removed from bones and flaked, putting in the dish
first a layer of sauce, then a layer of fish, another layer of sauce and
another of fish. On top layer put sauce, thickly sprinkled with bread
crumbs and grated gruyere cheese. Brown one half an hour in the oven and
serve. This quantity will serve ten or twelve people.


JELLIED TONGUE.

MISS MITCHELL.

Take a corned tongue, soak it for twelve hours then boil slowly, pare
and skin, and put it in your mould. Have ready half a package of
gelatine and a half a thinly cut lemon, place on the tongue and pour
your jelly over it. Turn out when cold.




SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING.


    "To make a perfect salad, there should be a spendthrift for oil, a
    miser for vinegar, a wise man for salt, and a madcap to stir the
    ingredients up, and mix them well together."--SPANISH PROVERB.


APPLE AND CELERY SALAD.

MRS. R. M. STOCKING.

    One day at the house of a charming friend,
      From dishes of dainty blue,
    I ate something good which puzzled me much,
      The secret I'll tell to you.

    2. "This looks like salad, my dear," said I,
      "T'is celery surely I see,
    And mayonnaise yellow and thick and rich,
      What may this rare flavor be."

    3. "A firm spicy apple," she said with a smile,
      "Cut into pieces like dice--
    I used equal parts, with celery white,
      And my salad was made in a trice."


CABBAGE SALAD.

MRS. SMYTHE.

Cut a cabbage into fine pieces. Place in water for a couple of hours
with one onion sliced thin. Throw water off, pass through colander.
Cover it with the dressing and let it stand for five or six hours. A
couple of beets can be chopped up finely and placed with it; this salad
will keep for a couple of days.


SALAD DRESSING.

One cup cream, one table spoon sugar, one dessert spoon mustard, one
half dessert spoon of pepper and salt, one small onion sliced fine, a
couple of radishes sliced, two hard boiled eggs. Crush the yolks into
the cream, one pinch mint, two tablespoons vinegar. If cream is not
thick enough, crush up potatoes and mix with it. Sour cream can be used
as well as sweet cream.


CHICKEN SALAD.

MISS STEVENSON.

One cold chicken, one teaspoonful white pepper, one half head celery,
one grain cayenne, yolks two eggs, one tablespoonful vinegar, one
tablespoonful capers, one head of lettuce, one gill salad oil, one
tablespoonful of cream, white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Cut the
chicken into small square pieces and remove the skin. The celery should
be well washed and also cut into pieces of a similar size. Put into a
bowl the yolks of eggs, drop into this drop by drop, the oil, and beat
them together, the mixture should resemble thick cream, add the vinegar.
Put the chicken and celery together in a salad bowl and pour over the
compound, sprinkle on also pepper and salt and cayenne; mix all
thoroughly together with a fork. Arrange the lettuce around the edge of
the salad bowl, sprinkle the capers over the top and garnish the centre
with tips of celery.


LOBSTER, CHICKEN OR VEAL SALAD.

MRS. A. J. ELLIOT.

Cut up a chicken, (roast or boiled) fine, salt and pepper well, add a
large or two small heads of celery and if lobster some beet-root and the
white of a hard boiled egg. Crush the yolk with a pinch of salt, half a
teaspoon of pepper, a large teaspoon of mustard, two teaspoons of brown
sugar, one teaspoon of olive oil or butter melted, one wineglass of
vinegar; mix well with a raw egg well beaten, half a pint of sour or
sweet cream, and mix with other ingredients: garnish with either salad
or parsley. This is excellent.


LETTUCE CHICKEN SALAD.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE.

Having skinned a pair of cold chickens, either mince or divide into
small threads. Mix with it a little smoked tongue or cold ham, grated
rather than chopped. Have ready one or two fine fresh lettuces, washed,
drained and cut small. Put the cut lettuce in a bowl, place upon it the
minced chicken in a close heap in the centre. For the dressing: the
yolks of four eggs well beaten, a teaspoon of white sugar, a little
cayenne, no salt: if you have ham or tongue with the chicken two
teaspoonfuls of made mustard, two tables of vinegar, and four tables of
salad oil. Stir this mixture well, put it into a small saucepan and let
boil three minutes (not more), stirring it all the time, then set to
cool, when quite cold cover with it thickly the heap of chicken in
centre of salad. To ornament it have ready one half dozen hard boiled
eggs, which after the shell is peeled off must be thrown directly into a
pan of cold water to prevent discoloring. Cut each egg (white and yolk
together) lengthways, into four large pieces of equal size and shape,
lay the pieces upon the salad all round the heap of chicken in a
slanting direction. Have ready also some red cold beet, cut in small
cones of equal size, arrange them outside the circle of egg. This salad
should be prepared immediately before dinner or supper. The colder it is
the better.


SALMON OR LOBSTER SALAD DRESSING.

MRS. ANDREW T. LOVE.

Two eggs, two tablespoons melted butter, one tablespoon mustard, one
half cup milk, (with a small pinch baking soda to prevent curdling), one
half cup vinegar, salt and pepper. Mix mustard and butter, then eggs
well beaten, milk, stir well, add vinegar, boil gently till as thick as
cream. Celery chopped up and added gives a nice flavor and crispness.
If cooked in a double boiler it is less likely to burn. This does nicely
with chicken or lamb.


SOMETHING NICE FOR THE SALAD COURSE OF A LUNCHEON.

MRS. FRANK DUGGAN.

Select round tomatoes of equal size; peel and scoop out the seeds from
the stem end. Place the tomatoes on the ice till shortly before serving;
then fill with celery that has been chopped fine and mixed with
mayonnaise. Arrange the filled tomatoes on lettuce leaves on a flat dish
or plate. Garnish the dish further by placing the ends of celery and
sprigs of parsley on top of each tomato. Serve with toasted cheese,
biscuits, or salted wafers. Be generous with the filling. Use plenty of
the mayonnaise and celery and fill tomatoes to the top.


SALAD DRESSING.

MRS. R. STUART.

Two eggs (well beaten), one cup sweet milk, one half cup vinegar (scant)
one teaspoon mixed mustard, one tablespoon butter (melted). Pepper and
salt to taste, _mix thoroughly_. Set in kettle of boiling water and stir
till it thickens, (about four minutes), when ready to use it add two
tablespoons cream.


SALAD SANDWICHES.

MRS. J. LAURIE.

For twenty four slices of bread and butter, take two small tomatoes, one
small lettuce, one bunch cress, two tablespoons salad oil, one
tablespoon of vinegar, pepper and salt. Shred all the salad finely. Mix
well with the dressing and put a little on half the bread and butter.
Cover with the other half, press together and trim neatly.


SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT OIL.

MRS. GILMOUR.

The yolks of two egg boiled half an hour, one half egg spoon of mustard,
one dessert spoon of sugar, pinch of salt, a little pepper. One cup of
sour or sweet cream, one dessert spoon of vinegar.


SALAD DRESSING FOR TOMATOES.

MRS. A. J. ELLIOT.

Half a cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of vinegar, one
tablespoon of salt, two tablespoons of made mustard, a dash of sugar and
cayenne, and four eggs. Slice tomatoes and arrange in layers. Garnish
dish with either salad or parsley.

METHOD: Scald the milk and melt the butter with it, pour this on the
eggs well beaten, add the salt and then the vinegar, this last slowly,
and stir all the time. Then cook in a pot in hot water, until as thick
as custard, when cold add the mustard.--Prepared mustard is made as
follows: two tablespoons mustard, one teaspoon sugar, half a teaspoon
salt, enough boiling water to mix. Half this quantity is enough for
ordinary use. The above recipe is also good for chicken.




EGGS.


    Humpty Dumpty sat on the wall.
    Humpty Dumpty had a great fall.
    All the king's horses and all the king's men
    Could not set Humpty Dumpty back again.
                              --MOTHER GOOSE.


Try the freshness of eggs by putting them into cold water; those that
sink the soonest are the freshest.

Never attempt to boil an egg without watching the time-piece. Put the
eggs in boiling water. In three minutes eggs will be boiled soft; in
four minutes the white part will be cooked; in ten minutes they will be
hard enough for salad.


PRESERVING EGGS.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

(Which keeps them from June to June.)

Half a gallon of fresh lime to five gallons of water added by degrees,
two and one half gallons the first day, the rest next, then add one half
gallon coarse salt, stir two or three times a day for three days, after
this drop in four eggs gently. To test the strength of the lime-water
drop in an egg that you know to be fresh, and if it floats the lime is
too strong, add another gallon or more of water until you find the egg
dropping to the bottom.


CUR√âE EGGS.

MISS MITCHELL.

Boil six eggs quite hard, then shell and cut them in half; have drawn
butter not too thick, flavor with cur√©e powder. Place your eggs on a
side dish, pour your cur√©e round and finish with parsley: makes a pretty
lunch dish.


POACHED EGGS.

Have nicely cut hot buttered toast, with a little anchovy paste. After
poaching your eggs, put them on the toast and sprinkle finely chopped
parsley over them. Garnish the dish with parsley.


ANCHOVY EGGS.

MADAME J. T.

Boil three eggs hard, turn in the water for the first two minutes. Let
boil for one hour; cut in two, remove the yolks and leave the whites in
cold water not to discolor. Pound three anchovies in a mortar with one
tablespoon butter, small pinch of pepper, one shake cayenne, one half
teaspoon lemon juice and the yolks of the eggs. When pounded smooth put
back into the eggs. Sardines can be used instead of the anchovies.


STUFFED EGGS.

MRS. W. CLINT.

Three eggs, one teaspoon of butter, one teaspoon of parsley, two
tablespoons minced ham. Boil the eggs for ten minutes; take off the
shells, cut lengthwise, take out the yolks, mash them in a basin, add
the butter melted, the minced ham and the parsley. Put the mixture into
the whites of the eggs. Put the two halves together. Serve on shallow
dish with the following white sauce: one tablespoon each of butter,
flour, and salt, one cup milk, one saltspoon pepper. Melt the butter add
the flour, then the milk (gradually) and pepper and salt.


BAKED OMELET.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE.

One cupful boiling milk, beat the yolks of four eggs, add hot milk, and
a tablespoonful melted butter, wet three teaspoonfuls flour in a little
cold milk add the beaten whites and beat all, salt and pepper to taste.
Bake twenty minutes.


CHEESE OMELET.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

Three eggs, well beaten, grated cheese the size of an egg, salt, three
tablespoons of fresh cream.


OMELET.

MISS M'GEE.

Seven eggs, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful flour, parsley, pepper and
salt. Beat the whites and yolks separately, add the milk, pepper, salt,
and chopped parsley and the flour dissolved in a little milk, then add
the whites, put in the frying pan, leave on top of the stove for three
minutes and put in the oven for five minutes.


OMELETTE.

MISS MAUD THOMSON.

The yolks of four beaten eggs, four tablespoons of milk, a pinch of
salt: beat the whites of the four eggs as stiff as possible, add to the
above, turn into a frying pan, until the mixture sets and then put in
the oven until a golden brown.




CHEESE DISHES.


CHEESE STRAWS.

MRS. J. MACNAUGHTON.

Mix one cupful of any good cheese grated with one cupful of flour, one
half saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper and butter the size
of an egg. Add enough cold water to enable you to roll thin. Cut in
strips and bake five or to ten minutes in a quick oven.


CHEESE SCALLOP.

MISS FRASER.

Soak one cup of dried bread crumbs in fresh milk. Into this beat the
yolks of three eggs, add one teaspoon of butter, and half a pound of
grated cheese. Strew upon the top sifted bread crumbs, and bake a
delicate brown. Whip the whites of the three eggs to a stiff froth; put
on top and return to the oven for a few minutes.




THE CHAFING DISH.


A Relish and a Savory.


WELSH RAREBIT.

MISS GRACE M'MILLAN.

Allow for each person one egg, one tablespoonful of grated cheese, one
half teaspoonful of butter, one saltspoon of salt, and a few grains of
cayenne. Cook like custard until smooth. Spread on toast and serve at
once.


WELSH RAREBIT.

MISS BEEMER.

Select richest and best American cheese, (Canadian will do), the milder
the better, as melting brings out strength. To make five rarebits take
one pound cheese grate and put in the saucepan; add ale (old is best)
enough to thin the cheese sufficiently, say about a wine glassful to
each rarebit. Place over the fire, stir until it is melted. Have ready a
slice of toast for each rarebit (crusts trimmed); put a slice on each
plate, and pour cheese enough over each piece to cover it. Serve _at
once_.


GOLDEN BUCK

A "Golden Buck" is merely the addition of a poached egg which is put
carefully on top of rarebit.


LOBSTER √Ä LA NEWBURG.

MRS. J. G. SCOTT.

Two pounds of lobster, one half cup of cream, two eggs (hard boiled),
one tablespoon flour, two tablespoons of Sherry wine, two tablespoons of
butter, salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Break the lobster meat into
moderately small pieces, mash the yolks of the eggs with a silver spoon
and gradually add half the cream. Place the butter in a granite ware
saucepan, add the flour, let it cook slowly for one minute and then pour
in the balance of the cream and stir until the liquid thickens. Add the
first mixture and then the lobster meat and the whites of the eggs
sliced, season with cayenne pepper, and salt, add the wine and serve at
once.


LOBSTER √Ä LA NEWBURG.

MRS. HARRY LAURIE.

Two tablespoons of butter, one tablespoon of flour, stir until smooth,
add one cup of cream, let it heat through, then add one can of lobster.
Pepper and salt to taste and one half cup of Sherry or Port wine, if
desired; serve at once on squares of toast. Canned chicken or salmon can
be done the same way.


OYSTER COCKTAIL.

MISS RITCHIE.

One dessertspoonful tomato sauce, one shake of tabasco, a sprinkle of
horse radish, about half a dozen oysters, and the same on top. Serve in
small tumblers on a plate with pounded ice around them and with oyster
biscuits.


CRUSTINE.

MRS. A. COOK.

Boil the liver of two chickens, (or turkey will do), pound them to a
paste with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a teaspoon of anchovy
and a little cayenne. Serve on hot toast. Small anchovies whole, laid on
top are an improvement.




PIES.


    "Who dare deny the truth, there's poetry in pie."--LONGFELLOW.


"Ingenuity, good judgment and great care should be used in making all
kinds of pastry. Use very cold water, and just as little as possible;
roll thin and always from you; prick the bottom crust with a fork to
prevent blistering; then brush it well with the white of egg, and
sprinkle thick with granulated sugar. This will give you a firm rich
crust.

"For all kinds of fruit pies, prepare the bottom crust as above. Stew
the fruit and sweeten to taste. If juicy put a good layer of corn-starch
on top of the fruit before putting on the top crust. This will prevent
the juice from running out, and will form a nice jelly throughout the
pie. Be sure you have plenty of incisions in the top crust; then pinch
it closely around the edge; sprinkle some granulated sugar on top, and
bake in a moderate oven."


COCOANUT CUSTARD PIE.

MR. JOSEPH FLEIG. (Baker, Grenoble Hotel, N. Y.)

Place on a deep pie plate a thin layer of pie crust, put a good rim on
the side and put into this one half cup of dried cocoanut; fill up with
a custard made as follows: three eggs, three ounces of sugar beaten
together with flavoring of lemon, vanilla or nutmeg, little salt and add
one pint of milk. The custard must be three quarters of an inch thick.


LEMON PIE FILLING.

MRS. JAMES LAURIE.

Mix together two cups of white sugar, yolks of three eggs, juice of two
lemons, grated rind of half a lemon; put it on the stove to boil and add
at once one tea-cup boiling water, stir smooth, then add two tablespoons
of corn starch, mixed in a little cold water, and one tablespoon of
butter, boil until it custards.


LEMON PIE.

MRS. GEORGE CRESSMAN.

Grate one lemon, put this down to boil with two-thirds of a cup of water
for ten minutes, strain through fine sieve, then add one cup sugar, the
juice of a lemon and butter half the size of an egg, let boil a few
minutes. Mix two teaspoonfuls of corn-starch and yolk of one egg in half
cup milk stir in the mixture letting it boil until thick. Beat whites of
two eggs into stiff froth for frosting.


LEMON PIE.

MRS. STRANG.

Take two lemons, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls melted butter, eight
tablespoonfuls white sugar; squeeze the juice of the lemons and grate
the rind of one, stir together the yolks of three eggs and white of one
with the sugar, butter, juice and rind, then one (coffee) cup of sweet
cream or milk, beat all for a minute or two; have ready a plate lined
with paste, into which pour the mixture which will be sufficient for two
pies of the ordinary size. Bake till the pastry is done. Meanwhile beat
the remaining whites to a stiff froth and stir in four spoonfuls of
white sugar. Take the pies from the oven and spread over equal parts
upon each and return them quickly to the oven and bake a delicate brown.
Take care that the oven be not too hot, or they will brown too quickly
and cause the pie to fall when taken out.


PASTRY.

Four tablespoons of butter, ten teaspoons flour, two teaspoons baking
powder, one salt spoon salt, enough water to make a very soft paste.


MOCK CHERRY PIE.

MRS. W. W. HENRY.

One cup cranberries cut up, one half cup of raisins chopped, one half
cup of cold water, one teaspoonful vanilla, one tablespoonful
corn-starch, two-thirds cup sugar, a little salt. This makes one pie.


MINCE MEAT.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

One pound of suet, one pound of fresh tongue, one pound apples, one
pound sugar, one pound raisins, one pound currants, two nutmegs, a large
teaspoon of cinnamon, ditto of cloves and salt, one half pound of
candied peel.


PIE PLANT PIE.

MRS. R. M. STOCKING.

One cup sugar, well beaten with yolks of two eggs; add one pint of pie
plant, bake with one crust, then spread beaten whites, with tablespoon
sugar over top; return to oven a few moments.


RAISIN PIE.

One cup chopped raisins, one half cup chopped apples, four tablespoons
vinegar, one tablespoon cornstarch, one cup of boiling water, one cup
sugar, pinch of salt, mix together, bake with two crusts.


SOUR CREAM PIE.

One cup thick sour cream, pinch of salt, one egg, one half cup sugar,
scant tea-spoon of flour, one half cup raisins; beat cream, sugar, and
flour together, lay the raisins round on the top; bake with two crusts.


PUMPKIN PIE.

MISS BEEMER.

One coffeecup of mashed pumpkin, reduced to the proper consistency with
rich milk and melted butter or cream, one tablespoonful of flour, a
small pinch of salt, one teaspoon of ginger, ditto of cinnamon, one-half
nutmeg, one-half teaspoon lemon extract, two-thirds cup of sugar, and
two eggs.


PASTE.

One third-cup cup of lard, a little salt; mix slightly with one and
one-half cups of flour; moisten with very cold water, just enough to
hold together, get into shape for your tin as soon as possible. Brush
the paste with white of egg. Bake in a hot oven until a rich brown.




PUDDINGS.


    "The proof of the pudding lies in the eating."


ALMOND PUDDING

MRS. STOCKING.

One pint of milk, two eggs, two heaping tablespoons of maple sugar, one
heaping tablespoon of cornstarch, flavor with almond; cook milk, sugar,
and cornstarch in double boiler, adding yolks of eggs when boiling; pour
into pudding dish, cover with whites of the eggs, and brown in oven, to
be served cold.


APPLE BATTER PUDDING.

MRS. ERNEST F. WURTELE.

Stew the apples in a pie dish, when soft place the following batter on
top: one egg, one tablespoon each of sugar and butter, two
tablespoonfuls each of milk and flour, one teaspoon of baking powder,
bake forty five minutes in a slow oven, serve with cream.


BANANA PUDDING.

MISS J. P. M'GIE.

Two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch wet with cold water, one cup of white
sugar and one third of a cup of butter. Stir together in a dish, pour on
boiling water to make a thick custard; stir in the well beaten yolks of
three eggs, bring to a boil. Slice thin a few ripe bananas, pour the
custard over them. Put whipped cream on top or if not cream the whites
of the three eggs well beaten with sugar. To be eaten cold.


BREAD PUDDING.

MRS. ARCHIBALD LAURIE.

Sliced bread to fill a pudding bowl; one layer of bread, one layer of
fruit with sugar to taste and small lumps of butter. Continue until bowl
is full, put a plate on top and steam for at least two hours, more will
do no harm. Turn out a few minutes before wanted to let the juice
penetrate the bread that was uppermost.


COTTAGE PUDDING.

MRS. W. W. HENRY.

After rubbing together a cupful of sugar and a tablespoon of butter, add
two eggs, and after beating the mixture until light, add a cupful of
milk; mix well in a sieve a pint of sifted flour and three teaspoons of
baking powder, rub through the sieve into the mixture already made,
beat quickly and pour the batter into one large pudding dish or two
small ones. Sprinkle with sugar, bake in a moderate oven for forty
minutes or thirty if there be two. Serve hot with lemon sauce or any
sweet sauce.

LEMON SAUCE.--Beat two eggs very light, and add one cup of sugar, one
tablespoon of melted butter, one small tablespoon of cornstarch, beat
all together, then add one cup of boiling water, cook five minutes,
boiling all the while. Cook a little longer if set in a basin of hot
water, take from the fire, and add juice of lemon.


CHOCOLATE PUDDING.

One quart of milk scalded, two eggs well beaten, add gradually one cup
sugar. With the eggs and sugar mix two thirds cup of cornstarch, and
three heaping tablespoons grated chocolate dissolved over hot water,
stir into the milk until a soft custard, add one teaspoon of vanilla,
serve with whipped cream.


CHOCOLATE PUDDING.

MRS. W. J. FRASER.

One quart of milk, one pint of bread crumbs, one tea cup of sugar, three
eggs, three tablespoonfuls of chocolate, one half teaspoonful essence of
vanilla. Let the milk come to a boil, scald the bread crumbs, when
almost cool, beat the yolks of three eggs, add sugar and chocolate, to
the bread and milk. Bake one half hour, slow oven. When cool, beat the
whites of three eggs and put meringues.


CARAMEL PUDDING.

MRS. RATTRAY.

Take one coffee cup full of brown sugar, put it in a frying pan over a
slow fire and burn it, then pour it into one and a half pints of milk in
a saucepan and place the latter on the fire to come to a boil, but do
not stir it in case the milk should crack. Blend three tablespoonfuls of
cornstarch with a little cold milk, and when the milk and sugar boil
stir the starch in. Put it in a mould to get cold and eat with whipped
cream.


CARAMEL PUDDING.

MRS. W. W. WELCH.

One pint of milk, one pound of brown sugar, one coffee cup of chopped
walnuts, two heaping tablespoons of cornstarch, pinch of salt. Put the
milk in a double boiler, when boiling put in cornstarch dissolved in a
little cold milk; let it cook a few minutes, put in the sugar which has
been previously burnt a little, then add the nuts, stir a few minutes,
flavor with vanilla, put into a mould, and eat with whipped cream.


COCOANUT SPONGE.

MISS LAMPSON.

Two cups of stale sponge cake crumbs, two cups of milk, one cup of
grated cocoanut, yolks of two eggs and whites of four, one cup of white
sugar, one tablespoonful of rose water, a little nutmeg. Scald the milk
and beat into this the cake crumbs. When nearly cold add the eggs,
sugar, rose water and lastly the cocoanut. Bake three quarters of an
hour in a buttered pudding dish. Eat cold, with white sugar sifted over
it.


DUTCH APPLE CAKE, LEMON SAUCE.

MRS. STOCKING.

One pint of flour, one half teaspoon salt, one and one half teaspoons
baking powder, butter size of an egg; sift flour, salt and baking powder
together then rub in the butter thoroughly; beat one egg light with
two-thirds of a cup of milk and stir into the dry mixture; spread one
half inch thick on a baking pan; pare and core and cut in eight pieces,
four apples and stick them into the dough, in rows, and sprinkle over
them two tablespoons sugar and bake quickly; serve with sauce as
follows: Two cups cold water, ditto of sugar; when it boils, add three
teaspoons of cornstarch dissolved in a little cold water; take from fire
as soon as it thickens and add one tablespoon of butter and the rind and
juice of one lemon, or one teaspoon lemon extract; serve hot.


FRIED CREAM.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

Everyone should try this receipt; it will surprise many to know how soft
cream could be enveloped in the crust while it is an exceedingly good
dish for a dinner course or for lunch or tea. When the pudding is hard,
it can be rolled in the egg and bread crumbs. The moment the egg touches
the hot lard it hardens and secures the pudding which softens to a
creamy substance very delicious. Ingredients, one pint of milk, five
ounces of sugar (little more than half a cupful,) butter the size of a
hickory nut, yolks of three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of corn starch, and
one tablespoonful of flour, (a generous half cupful altogether), stick
of cinnamon one inch long, one half teaspoonful of vanilla. Put the
cinnamon into the milk and when it is just about to boil, stir in the
sugar, cornstarch and flour, the two latter rubbed smooth with two or
three tablespoons of extra cold milk: stir it over the fire for fully
two minutes, to cook well the starch and flour; take it from the fire,
stir in the beaten yolks of the eggs and return it a few minutes to set
them; now again taking it from the fire remove the cinnamon, stir in the
butter and vanilla and pour it on a buttered platter until one third of
an inch high. When cold and stiff cut the pudding into parallelograms,
about three inches long and two inches wide: roll them carefully, first
in sifted cracker crumbs then in eggs (slightly beaten and sweetened)
then again in cracker-crumbs. Dip these into boiling hot lard (a wire
basket should be used if convenient) and when of fine color, take them
out and place them in the oven for four or five minutes to better soften
the pudding. Sprinkle over pulverized sugar and serve immediately.


FEATHER PUDDING.

MRS. W. R. DEAN.

One tablespoon butter, one cup white sugar, two eggs, a little salt, one
cup sweet milk, two tablespoons baking powder three cups of flour, one
and one half teaspoons flavoring. Steam one hour. Eat with sauce.


FIG PUDDING.

MRS. THOM.

One cup suet, one half pound figs cut fine, two cups bread-crumbs, one
cup flour, one half cup brown sugar, one egg, one cup of milk, two
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, steam three hours.


GELATINE PUDDING (Pink.)

MRS. W. R. DEAN.

Put one ounce pink gelatine and one quart of milk in a bowl on the stove
where it will not get hot; when dissolved add yolks of four eggs, beaten
with four tablespoons sugar, stir well, let it just come to the boil,
then add the whites well beaten, with four tablespoons of sugar and a
dessert spoon vanilla. Turn into a mould and let it cool, then turn out
and garnish with whipped cream. This is a very pretty dish.


GRAHAM PUDDING.

MRS. W. W. HENRY.

One and one half cups of graham flour, one cup of milk, one half cup of
molasses, one cup chopped raisins, one half teaspoonful salt, one
teaspoonful of soda. Sift the graham in order to make it light, but
return the bran to the sifted mixture, dissolve the soda in one
tablespoon of milk and add the remainder of milk with the molasses and
salt, pour this mixture upon the graham and beat well, add the raisins
and pour the pudding into a mould. Steam four hours, turn out and serve
with sauce.


HONEY COMB PUDDING.

MISS BICKELL.

One cup flour mixed with one cup sugar, one half cup butter and one of
milk melted, together, five eggs well beaten; last of all put in two
teaspoons soda and one of salt. Steam one hour and a half.


MEDLEY PUDDING.

MRS. THEOPHILUS H. OLIVER.

Three eggs, the weight of three eggs in butter, in sugar, and in flour,
beat the butter to a cream. Add the eggs well beaten to the sugar and
flour. Put into small teacups. Bake for twenty minutes.


MANITOBA PUDDING.

MRS. STRANG.

Four cups flour, two cups of suet, two cups raisins, one cup currants,
two cups sugar (brown), a little baking powder, a little essence of
lemon, a little allspice, a chopped apple, a little salt, wet with a
small quantity of water, boil four hours.


FOAMING SAUCE.

One half teacup butter, ditto of sugar, beat to a froth, put in a dish
and set in a pan of hot water, add one tablespoon of hot water, if liked
a little vanilla. Stir one way until it comes to a very light foam.


MARMALADE PUDDING.

MRS. W. R. DEAN.

Two dessertspoons marmalade, two cups bread crumbs, butter size of two
walnuts, one half pint of milk, two eggs, two ounces of sugar. Melt the
butter and mix with the bread crumbs, marmalade and sugar, add the eggs
well beaten and the milk, pour into a well buttered mould, tie a cloth
closely over it and boil one and one half hours. Serve with sauce.


CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING.

MRS. W. THOM.

One pound each of raisins, currants and suet, three quarters of a pound
of bread crumbs, one quarter pound flour, one half pound candied peel,
one half pint brandy, one half nutmeg, one quarter pound brown sugar and
six eggs. Boil six hours and steam two or three more when required.
Caramel sauce. One cup brown sugar, one ounce of butter, and
dessertspoon cornstarch, stirred till brown, add boiling water and one
wine glass of brandy.


OLD ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING.

MRS. JOHN JACK.

One pound each of stoned raisins, currants, beef kidney suet, granulated
sugar, bread crumbs, and flour, one half pound candied lemon and citron
peel mixed; one tablespoon salt, one teaspoonful each of finely ground
nutmeg, cinnamon and cloves, eight fresh eggs, one half ounce bitter
almonds chopped fine, the red part of three large carrots grated,
breakfast cupful of strong coffee, strained at breakfast, cupful of
molasses, and enough pure apple cider to make the whole of the proper
consistency. Mix thoroughly and stand in a warm place over night, put
into mould or pudding bag, tie tightly and boil gently for twelve hours.
In serving make a sauce of flour, water, butter, and sugar flavored with
brandy. Place the pudding on a hot dish, stick a sprig of berried holly
in the centre, pour a wineglassful of brandy around it and set fire to
it.


ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING.

MRS. BLAIR.

Two pounds and a half raisins, three quarters of currants, two pounds
finest moist sugar, two pounds bread crumbs, sixteen eggs, two pounds
finely chopped suet, six ounces mixed candied peel, juice and rind of
two lemons, one ounce of ground nutmeg, one ounce of cinnamon, half
ounce pounded bitter almonds, gill of brandy or if objected to, any
flavoring at hand. Stone and cut up the raisins do not _chop_ them; wash
and dry the currants; cut the candied peel into thin slices; mix all the
dry ingredients well together and moisten with the eggs, which should be
well beaten; then stir in the flavoring, and when all is thoroughly
mixed, add about half a pound of flour and put the pudding into a stout
new cloth; or boil in two moulds for twelve hours and serve with rich
sauce.


PLUM PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS.

MRS. DAVID BELL.

Two cups of flour, two cups of raisins, two of currants, two cups of
suet, one tablespoon sugar, enough water to make a stiff batter, colour
with burnt sugar, spice to taste, salt, and lemon peel. _Just before_
putting on to boil stir in a couple of tablespoonfuls of raw sago; boil
in a cloth, not a shape.


PLUM PUDDING.

MADAME J. T.

Four eggs, yolks and whites beaten together, one half cup brown sugar,
one cup molasses, one cup stoned raisins, two cups currants, one cup
bread crumbs, two cups chopped suet, three quarters of a nutmeg, grated,
the grated rind of a large lemon, one cup flour and one teaspoon baking
powder. Steam for three and a half hours in a tightly closed pudding
mould well buttered, keeping the water boiling _constantly_. Before
serving sprinkle thickly with sugar and pour over this one half cup
brandy, and light. Serve with this a sauce made with the juice and rind
(grated) of one lemon, put over to boil with one half cup sugar, one
half cup water, add one tablespoon cornstarch, one half cup sherry, one
half cup brandy. This quantity will serve sixteen people.


PALACE PUDDING.

MRS. SMYTHE.

Two eggs, one cup of flour, one half cup sugar, one quarter cup butter,
one teaspoon baking powder, one half teaspoon nutmeg, cream butter, add
sugar, eggs, the flour sifted with baking powder, also nutmeg. Grease
tin and bake half an hour.

Sauce.--One dessertspoon butter, one dessertspoon of flour, rub well
together, add slowly about one cup boiling water, three dessertspoons
brown sugar, one teaspoon of molasses. Boil slowly until it thickens and
flavor as desired.


QUAY PUDDING.

One cup flour, one half cup sugar, one quarter cup butter one teaspoon
soda, one tablespoon jam, two eggs. Cream butter with sugar, add to this
the eggs and jam, the flour sifted with the soda. Put into a buttered
mould and steam for two hours and serve with lemon sauce.


RAILROAD PUDDING.

MRS. GEORGE ELLIOTT.

Four eggs, beat whites and yolks separately, a cup of sugar to the
whites, beat again, then add the yolks, mix a teaspoon of baking powder
in a cup of flour and mix the flour and eggs and beat again. Put a sheet
of buttered paper in a square pan and bake. When done turn it on a
heated towel, the buttered side up and take off the paper and spread
with a thick jam or marmalade, roll up quickly and pour sweetened
whipped cream over, flavor with vanilla.


RICE PUDDING.

MRS. W. W. HENRY.

One cup of rice boiled soft in water, add a pint of cold milk, and a
piece of butter size of an egg, salt to taste, yolks of four eggs, rind
of lemon grated. Mix and bake one half hour. Beat the whites of four
eggs, stir in a pint of sugar, juice of one good sized lemon. After the
pudding is baked and cooled a little pour this over and brown in the
oven. Eat cold; this will keep for several days.


SUET PUDDING. (Plain.)

MRS STUART OLIVER.

Three quarters of a pound of flour, one quarter of a pound suet chopped
fine; mix with an egg and milk.


VICTORIA PUDDING.

MRS. ARCHIBALD LAURIE.

The weight of two eggs in butter, sugar, and flour. Butter and sugar to
be beaten to a cream, add the well beaten eggs, two tablespoons of
marmalade, then the sifted flour, one half teaspoon soda, dissolved in
boiling water. Steam for three hours, not less.


STRAWBERRY SAUCE FOR PLAIN BLANC MANGE.

The whites of two eggs, one cup pulverized sugar, one cup strawberries.
Mix all together and whip until stiff.


STRAWBERRY SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS.

MRS. W. W. HENRY.

One cupful of fine granulated sugar, one-half cupful of butter boiled
together until it creams, (a wooden spoon best for this), beat the white
of an egg until stiff, then add one cup of mashed strawberries, and beat
again; add to the mixture, stir well together.


HARD SAUCE.

MRS. GAUDET.

1. One cup of brown sugar, one tablespoon of butter, three drops of
vanilla, half a glass of sherry, whipped lightly.

2. One glass of sherry, a tablespoon of molasses, and a tablespoon of
sugar.




DESSERTS.


    "Custards for supper and an endless host of other such lady-like
    luxuries."--SHELLEY.


ORANGE FLOAT.

MRS. ERNEST F. WURTELE.

One quart of water, the juice and pulp of two lemons, one coffee cup of
sugar. When boiling add four tablespoons of cornstarch; let it boil
fifteen minutes stirring all the time, when cold pour over the top of
four or five peeled and sliced oranges. Over this spread beaten whites
of three eggs. Sweeten and add a few drops of vanilla.


VELVET CREAM.

A large teacupful of white wine, the juice of a nice lemon, one half
ounce of isinglass, sugar to taste, let boil together, till nearly all
the isinglass is dissolved, then strain and add one pint of cream. Let
it stand until nearly cold and then put it into the mould. It requires
to be made some hours before it is turned out.


PRUNE JELLY.

Put about three dozen prunes into one quart of boiling water and let
them boil for one hour, take out the prunes and stone them making use of
half the kernels as a flavoring. Put the prunes back into the water,
with the blanched kernels, adding one cup of sugar and let boil half an
hour more. Dissolve half a box of Cox's gelatine in water and add to the
above and boil ten minutes longer. Put into a mould and serve cold with
whipped cream.


FROZEN PUDDING.

Make a custard with three eggs and about one pint of milk, flavor with
vanilla and a small cup of white sugar. Put four tablespoons of brown
sugar in a frying pan and brown it well. Take from the stove and stir
till off the boil, then stir into the custard. Put all in a dipper or
deep dish; take a large dish full of snow and coarse salt, put the
dipper into this and stir the custard until it is quite thick. Put into
a mould and leave in a cool place. Serve with whipped cream.


ARROWROOT WINE JELLY.

Wet two heaping teaspoons of arrowroot with a little cold water, stir it
into a cup of boiling water in which has been dissolved 2 teaspoons of
white sugar. Stir while it boils ten minutes. Add one tablespoon of
brandy, or three of sherry. Put into a mould and serve cold with custard
as a sauce. This is very nice for invalids, omitting the sauce.


RICE BLANC MANGE.

One half pound ground rice, one quart of milk, three ounces of sugar,
the rind of half a lemon, one half teaspoonful of vanilla. Boil the rice
in the milk for twenty minutes with the sugar and rind of lemon, then
remove the rind and add the vanilla. Put it into a wet mould.


LEMON JELLY.

MISS CLINT.

Dissolve one package or twelve sheets of gelatine in a little warm
water. Then add three and one half pints of boiling water, one pound of
sugar and the juice of four lemons. Cool in a mould.


COFFEE JELLY.

MRS. GAUDET.

Two tablespoons of coffee, one package of gelatine, one glass of sherry
boiled down to one pint.


ICED APPLES WITH CREAM.

MRS. W. W. WELCH.

Pare and core six apples; cook them in a syrup made of one cup of sugar,
and two of water; drop the apples into the boiling syrup; when they are
tender put them on a platter, when cool cover with a thin layer of
meringue and brown. Let the syrup boil until reduced to one half
cupful, when cold, will form a jelly, cut into squares and place over
and around the apples. Serve cold with sugar and cream.


FRUIT JELLY.

MISS FRY.

To one large box of gelatine add one half pint cold water. When
dissolved add juice of three lemons, two cups sugar, one pint of boiling
water. Arrange in layers in a mould. Four bananas and two or more
oranges (sliced) six castane nuts chopped fine, six figs, one quarter
lb. dates cut into small pieces. Strain jelly over this and cool. Serve
with whipped cream. A lining of ladies fingers is an improvement.


COMPOTE OF APPLES.

MISS SEPTIMUS BARROW.

Take five apples, wipe, but do not peel them, take the cores out of four
of them and put them in a deep dish. Slice the fifth apple and put the
slices and a small lemon sliced with the four apples. One quarter lb.
brown sugar to be sprinkled over apples. One half pint of water. Bake
until perfectly soft but do not let them lose their shape. Put them in a
dish, press and strain the cut up pieces over the cooked apples. To be
eaten cold.


POMMES √Ä LA VESUVE.

MISS LAMPSON.

Pile some apple marmalade high in a dish; get ready some macaroni boiled
in water well drained, and afterwards sweetened with white sugar, and
flavored with brandy; cut it into short lengths, lay it as a bordering
round the mountains of marmalade; dust the whole over with powdered
sugar, and on the apex form a crater with half a dozen nubs of sugar;
pour a gill of brandy over the top, and just before serving set fire to
it and place it on the table flaming.


LEMON SPONGE.

MISS BEEMER.

One half box gelatine, juice of three lemons, one pint of cold water,
one half pint of hot water, two teacups of sugar, whites of three eggs.
Soak one-half box of gelatine in the pint of cold water ten minutes;
then dissolve on the fire adding the juice of the lemons with the hot
water and sugar. Boil all together two or three minutes; pour into a
dish, and let it remain until nearly cold and beginning to set; then add
the whites of eggs well beaten and whisk ten minutes. When it becomes
the consistency of sponge, wet the inside of cups with the white of
eggs, pour in the sponge and set in a cold place. Serve with thin
custard, made with the yolks of four eggs, one tablespoonful of
cornstarch, one-half teacup of sugar, one pint of milk, teaspoonful of
vanilla. Boil until sufficiently thick and serve cold over the sponge.
The sponge should be allowed to stand twenty-four hours.


ORANGE SOUFFL√â.

Pare and slice six oranges, boil one cup sugar, one pint of milk, the
yolks of three eggs, one tablespoon of cornstarch. As soon as thick,
pour over the oranges; beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth;
sweeten: put on top and brown in oven. Serve cold. Bananas may be used
instead of oranges and are far more wholesome from contact with the
heat.


GELATINE, WITH FRUIT.

Take one ounce box of gelatine; put to soak in a pint of cold water for
an hour. Take the juice of three lemons and one orange, with three cups
of sugar; add this to the gelatine, and pour over all three pints of
boiling water: let this boil up once, stirring all the time. Take two
moulds of the same size, and pour half your jelly into each. Stir into
one mould half a cup of candied cherries, and into the other one pound
of blanched almonds. The almonds will rise to the top. Let these moulds
stand on ice, or in a cool place until thoroughly set, twenty-four hours
is best. When ready to serve loosen the sides, and place the almond
jelly on top the other, on a fruit platter. Slice down and serve with
whipped cream.


EASY ICE CREAM.

One pint of cream, half a pint of milk, teacupful of sugar, two eggs
beaten separately, the whites being added last, a teaspoonful of vanilla
extract. Stir thoroughly but do not cook, it is quite as nice without.
This will be sufficient for six persons. Dissolve half a pound of
macaroons in the above mixture before it is frozen and a delicious ice
cream may be had.


TRIFLE.

MISS RUTH SCOTT.

One pint of cream well beaten, sugar and flavoring to taste. One quarter
of a pound of macaroons which have soaked in sherry for a few minutes.
Put in a deep dish alternate layers of macaroons and cream. Preserved
cherries and almonds (whole) are a great improvement.


CARAMEL CREAM.

MRS. BENSON BENNETT.

Boil two coffee cups of dark brown sugar, butter the size of an egg and
two thirds of a cup of thin sweet cream. Twelve minutes after it
commences to boil dissolve half a cup of gelatine in a little cold
water, add this to the boiling mixture and nearly a pint of sweet cream
all but the two thirds of a cup used in the beginning. Strain and flavor
with a tablespoonful of vanilla; pour into a pudding mould and let it
stand over night on the ice. Serve with whipped cream.


CLARET JELLY.

MRS. GILMOUR.

One ounce of gelatine, one cup of sugar, the rind and juice of two
lemons, two or three pieces of cinnamon, one and one half pints of
water, one half pint of claret, one glass of brandy. If Cox's gelatine
or Lady Charlotte, is used it will have to be soaked first in a little
of the cold water, if the leaf gelatine, boiling water can be poured on
it. Put all together into a saucepan with whites of three eggs, put on
the fire until it boils and then strain through a flannel bag.


CUP CUSTARD.

MR. JOSEPH FLEIG. (Baker to Grenoble Hotel, N. Y.)

Five eggs, six ounces of sugar, one quart of milk, extract to flavor,
spread cups or moulds with unsalted butter, fill up with the custard,
and place in pan filled with one inch water in good oven.


SPANISH CREAM.

MRS. W. R. DEAN.

Yolks of two eggs, two tablespoons sugar, two tablespoons ground rice,
one pint of milk. Beat the eggs a little. Put all together on the fire
and stir constantly until it thickens. Pour into glass dish and garnish
with blanched almonds and strips of citron.


SPANISH CREAM.

MISS GREEN.

Soak one half package of gelatine in one pint of milk for half an hour;
while this is soaking take two eggs (separate them) beating the yolks
with one half a cup of white sugar, till light, and whip the whites to a
stiff froth: when the gelatine is soaked, put the sauce pan on the fire
and let gelatine and milk come to the boil: then add the yolks and
remove from fire, add the whites and one teaspoon of vanilla. Put in a
wet mould and cool.


CHARLOTTE RUSSE.

MISS EDITH HENRY.

To make the jelly for bottom of mould one half a package of gelatine
soaked in a little over a tumbler of water, sugar to taste, one half a
small cup of cooking wine and enough cochineal to color. Let this stand
until stiff. One pint of sweet cream, one half a box of gelatine
dissolved, wine to taste, one teaspoon of vanilla, a little over half a
cup of sugar: whip cream stiff, then add sugar, wine, vanilla and lastly
the gelatine. Beat well together and pour into your mould lined with
ladies fingers and jelly.


WINE CREAM.

MRS. W. CRAWFORD.

Two cups of cream, half a cup of sugar, one box of gelatine dissolved in
half a cup of sherry over a steamer, when dissolved, strain into cream,
and put in a mould and in a cool place.


PINEAPPLE WATER ICE.

MRS. HARRY LAURIE.

Two large juicy pineapples, one and one half pounds of sugar, one quart
of water, juice of two lemons. Pare the pineapples, grate them and add
the juice of the lemons. Boil the sugar and water together for five
minutes. When cold add the pineapple and strain through a sieve. Turn
into freezer and freeze.


LEMON WATER ICE.

Four large juicy lemons, one quart of water, one orange, one and one
quarter pounds of sugar. Put the sugar and water over to boil. Chip the
yellow rind from three lemons and the orange, add to the syrup, boil
five minutes and stand away to cool. Square the juice from the orange
and lemon add it to the cold syrup, strain it through a cloth and
freeze.


ROLLED JELLY.

MRS. W. W. WELCH.

Two eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately. Take the yolks and beat to
a cream with one cup of sugar, three tablespoonfuls of milk, then add
one cup of flour, one heaping teaspoon of baking powder and the well
beaten whites last, also extract as fancied. When baked place on a wet
cloth and trim outside edges, cover with preserves, roll in the cloth
and let it stand for ten minutes, eat with whipped cream.


JUNKET.

MRS. STUART OLIVER.

Slightly warm one quart milk, add junket tablet dissolved, and two or
three tablespoonfuls sugar. Keep in a warm place near fire till solid.
Then remove to a cool place till served. Serve with cream and maple
sugar or preserves.




CAKES.


    "With weights and measures just and true,
        Oven of even heat,
     Well buttered tins and quiet nerves,
        Success will be complete."


"In making cake, the ingredients should be of the first quality--the
flour super-fine, and always sifted; the butter fresh and sweet and not
too much salted. Coffee A, or granulated sugar is best for cakes. Much
care should be taken in breaking and separating the eggs, and equal care
taken as regards their freshness. Break each egg separately in a teacup;
then into the vessels in which they are to be beaten. Never use an egg
when the white is the least discolored. Before beating the whites remove
every particle of yolk. If any is allowed to remain, it will prevent
them becoming as stiff and dry as required. Deep earthen bowls are best
for mixing cake, and a wooden spoon or paddle is best for beating
batter. Before commencing to make your cake, see that all the
ingredients required are at hand. By so doing the work may be done in
much less time.

"The lightness of a cake depends not only upon the making, but the
baking also. It is highly important to exercise judgment respecting the
heat of the oven, which must be regulated according to the cake you
bake, and the stove you use. Solid cake requires sufficient heat to
cause it to rise and brown nicely without scorching. If it should brown
too fast cover with thick brown paper. All light cakes require quick
heat and are not good if baked in a cool oven. Those having molasses as
an ingredient scorch more quickly, consequently should be baked in a
moderate oven. Every cook should use her own judgment, and by frequent
baking she will in a very short time be able to tell by the appearance
of either bread or cake whether it is sufficiently done."


SCRIPTURE CAKE.

MRS. STOCKING.


    One cup butter                                      Judges V. 25
    Four cups flour                                  I. Kings IV. 22
    Three cups sugar                                 Jeremiah VI. 20
    Two cups raisins                               I. Samuel XXX. 12
    Two cups figs                                  I. Samuel XXX. 12
    One cup water                                   Genesis XXIV. 17
    One cup almonds                                   Jeremiah I. 11
    Six eggs                                            Isaiah X. 14
    One tablespoon honey                              Exodus XVI. 21
    One teaspoon cream                                Exodus XII. 19
    Baking powder three teaspoonfuls a pinch of salt      Job VI.  6
    Spices to taste                                   I. Kings X. 10

Follow Solomon's advice for making good boys and you will have a good
cake.--Proverbs XXIII. 13.


CHRISTMAS FRUIT CAKE.

MRS. THOM.

One pound of flour, one pound of butter beaten to a cream, six eggs
beaten separately, two wineglasses of brandy, one pound sugar, one pound
of raisins, one pound of currants, one pound of prunes, one pound figs
chopped, one half pound mixed candied peel, one half pound almonds, one
half teaspoon mixed spice or nutmeg.


FRUITCAKE.

Two pounds of raisins, two pounds of currants, one half pound of citron,
one pound of sugar, one pound of flour, eight ounces of butter, ten
eggs, two nutmegs, one half ounce of mace, one tablespoon of cloves,
same of cinnamon, one glass of brandy, one tablespoon of baking powder,
one cup of molasses. Stir butter and sugar together until very light,
beat whites and yolks separately and bake in a slow oven.


ORANGE FROSTING.

One pound of frosting sugar, juice of one lemon and one orange, grate
rind of orange.


CARAMEL CAKE.

One tablespoon of butter, one cup of sugar, three eggs, one half cup of
milk, one and one half cups of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder.

FILLING.--Two cups of sugar, two thirds cup of milk, boil thirteen
minutes, add butter the size of a small egg, one good teaspoon of
vanilla, when done stir till thick enough to spread and not to run, bake
in three, spread between and on top.


CHARLOTTE RUSSE CAKE.

MRS. RICHARD TURNER.

One cup of flour, one cup of sugar, three eggs, two teaspoons baking
powder, three tablespoons boiling water. Bake same as sandwich cake.

THE FILLING.--One large cup of cream, one fourth package gelatine,
dissolved in a little milk; whip cream to a stiff froth, then add
gelatine, sugar, flavoring to taste. Ice the top.


CORNSTARCH CAKE.

MRS. JAMES LAURIE.

One half pound of butter and two cups white sugar stirred together, add
the yolks of four eggs, one cup of milk, two cups of cornstarch and one
of flour sifted well, one heaping teaspoonful of baking powder and add
the whites of the four eggs last. Flavor a little and line tins with
buttered paper.


SPONGECAKE. (Splendid.)

MRS. ERSKINE SCOTT.

Beat four eggs, over one cup of white sugar, for half an hour, then mix
one cup of flour, after it is in the pan pour some essence of lemon on
the top and bake immediately.


SPONGE CAKE.

MISS K. H. MARSH.

Beat seven eggs together with their weight in white sugar for half an
hour, then sift in the weight of four eggs in flour. Add a little lemon
to flavor and bake twenty minutes in a quick oven.


SPONGE CAKE.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

Ten eggs; very fresh, one pound fine sugar, the weight of five eggs in
flour, the rind of two lemons and juice of one. Break the eggs on the
sugar and beat them twenty minutes with two pronged steel carving fork
until in a lovely light cream, then grate the lemon rind into it with
the juice of one lemon. Sift the flour several times and next mix in the
flour most carefully barely stirring to mix it in, if stirred too much
it will make the cake heavy. Beat it with the back of the fork towards
you. The oven should be a little quick at first until the cake rises,
if baking too quickly place a piece of white paper over it and buttered
paper should be placed in the pans. N. B.--Delicious if properly made.


SPONGE CAKE.

MRS. ANDREW T. LOVE.

Six eggs, the weight of five in sugar, and three in flour, beat the
whites and yolks separately, lemon flavoring.


EASY SPONGE CAKE.

MRS. BLAIR.

Four eggs, two even cups of sugar, three-fourth's cup _hot_ water, one
and three fourth's cups of flour, even measure, two teaspoonfuls baking
powder, salt, flavor with lemon. Beat the eggs separately. To the yolks
gradually add the sugar. Mix well. Then add hot water. Mix the baking
powder with the flour and add a portion, then part of the well beaten
whites, and so on until all is used. Flavor. It will be thin but do not
add any more flour, for it is all right. Bake in a moderate oven. It may
be baked very thin, cut into shapes like dominos; frost, and mark the
lines and dots with a camel's hair brush dipped in chocolate.


CACOUNA CAKE.

MISS K. H. MARSH.

Three cups of sugar, two cups of butter, seven eggs, one pound of
raisins, wineglass of wine, one nutmeg, one cup sour milk and one
teaspoon soda, five cups of flour. Beat the butter to a cream, then add
the sugar and the eggs (well beaten), the fruit, spice and wine, then
the flour and lastly the soda dissolved in a cup of sour milk.


DELICIOUS ANGEL'S FOOD.

MISS RITCHIE.

Beat the whites of eleven eggs to a stiff froth, then stir in carefully
a cup and a half of sifted granulated sugar, (or better still of castor
sugar,) a teaspoonful of vanilla and one cup of flour that has been
sifted with a teaspoonful of cream of tartar five times; add this very
carefully and mix thoroughly, turn into an ungreased pan and bake in a
moderate oven for about fifty-five minutes. When done turn upside down
and when cool it will either drop out or it may be easily removed from
the pan with a knife.


CHOCOLATE CAKE.

MISS M. A. RITCHIE.

Dissolve two ounces of chocolate in five tablespoonfuls boiling water.
Cream half a cup of butter adding gradually one and a half cups of
sugar; add the yolks of four eggs, beat thoroughly; then add the
chocolate, half a cup of cream or milk, a cup and three quarters of
flour, two rounding teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a teaspoonful of
vanilla. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir them
carefully into the mixture, and it is ready to bake either in a loaf-pan
or in three layer cake pans. Frost with boiled icing flavored with
chocolate.


CHOCOLATE CAKE.

MRS. G. CRESSMAN.

One and one half squares of chocolate melted in one half cup of milk,
two eggs, reserving white of one egg for frosting, one cup sugar, one
teaspoonful soda in one half cup of milk, and one and one quarter cups
of flour. Bake in dripping pan. Boiled frosting, one cup of sugar and
white of one egg.


MAPLE CREAM CAKE.

One cup of sugar, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls butter, a little less
than two cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Bake in two
tins. Frosting, one cup and a half of maple sugar, one half cup cream,
boil until quite thick then beat until it creams, add the white of one
egg, keep beating until thick.


COCOA CAKE.

MISS MAUD THOMSON.

Rub one half cup butter to a cream, with one cup of sugar, add the
beaten yolks of two eggs, and beat well. Mix one and one half cups of
flour, one teaspoonful baking powder and two teaspoonfuls cocoa,
thoroughly beat the whites of eggs stiff, measure one-half cup of milk,
and then add a little milk and flour alternately to the egg mixture,
lastly add the whites of eggs and one teaspoonful of lemon or vanilla.
Bake in a shallow pan about twenty minutes and then frost with plain
cocoa frosting.

ICING.--Mix one half teaspoonful cocoa with one cup powdered sugar, add
one tablespoonful lemon juice and one tablespoonful boiling water or
enough to make the sugar into a paste that settles to a level the moment
you stop stirring. Spread at once on the hot cake.


CORN CAKE.

MRS. W. W. HENRY.

One cup of corn meal, one cup of flour, two teaspoons baking powder,
sifted with the flour, one egg, two tablespoons melted butter, two
tablespoons sugar, little salt, one and one fourth cups of sweet milk,
bake in quick oven.


CREWE CAKE.

MISS M. C.

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, three teaspoons of baking
powder, five eggs, one half pound of butter, a little milk, vanilla or
lemon flavoring.


CHRISTMAS CAKE.

MRS. GEORGE M. CRAIG.

One cup melted butter, one cup milk, one cup sugar, one cup molasses,
six eggs, six cups of flour, two pounds of currants, two pounds raisins,
two ounces peel, one teaspoonful of Durkee's baking powder to every cup
of flour.


COCOANUT CAKE. (Splendid.)

MISS. BEEMER.

Two cups of sugar and one half cup of butter beaten to a cream, slowly
add one cup of milk; mix two teaspoonfuls of baking powder with three
cups of flour, add this gradually, mixing and then beating, finally the
whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff froth and one teaspoonful of lemon
extract. This can be made in layers (three) or baked in a square pan.


ICING.

Whites of two eggs, one half pound of cocoanut, and enough powdered
sugar to make it sufficiently stiff, one teaspoonful lemon extract.


CREAM CAKE.

MRS. W. R. DEAN.

One cup of butter, one cup of cream or sour milk, two cups of sugar,
three cups of flour, four eggs, one teaspoon soda mixed in vinegar and
stirred in at the last. Bake in shallow tins.


RAILROAD CAKE.

One tea-cup flour, one ditto of sugar, two teaspoons cream of tartar,
one half teaspoon of soda, four eggs. This will form a thick batter.
Butter pan and bake about ten minutes.


MOUNTAIN CAKE.

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, one half pound well beaten
butter, one cup sweet milk, six eggs, one teaspoon cream of tartar, one
half teaspoon soda dissolved in the milk.


MOUNTAIN CAKE.

MRS. BENSON BENNETT.

Three fourths cup of butter and two cups of sugar beaten to a cream,
four eggs beaten very light, three cups of flour with two teaspoonfuls
of cream of tartar, one half cup of sweet milk with one teaspoonful of
baking soda, bake about twenty-five minutes.


MARBLE CAKE.

MRS. W. R. DEAN.

One cup white sugar, one fourth cup butter, three eggs (whites and yolks
beaten separately) one half cup milk, two cups of flour, two teaspoons
baking powder. Separate this batter into three parts. In one part put a
square of chocolate dissolved in a little hot water, in another part
put one teaspoon cochineal to color it. Take a spoonful of each color
(white, brown, pink) alternately and bake in long tin pan.


ICING.

White of one egg well beaten, one teaspoon of vanilla, and pulverized
sugar.


MARBLE CAKE.

MISS MILDRED POWIS.

(Light Part.)

One fourth cup butter, three fourths cup white sugar, one fourth cup
milk, one cup flour, whites of two eggs, one teaspoon of baking powder.


DARK PART.

One fourth cup butter, one half cup brown sugar, one fourth cup
molasses, one fourth cup milk, one and one fourth cups of flour, yolks
of two eggs, one good teaspoon baking powder, one half a teaspoon (good)
each of cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg and mace. Put into the pan a spoonful
at a time of each part.


MACAROON TART.

MR. JOSEPH FLEIG. (Baker, Grenoble Hotel, N. Y.)

Make a paste of three quarters of a pound flour, five ounces of sugar,
one half pound butter and two eggs. Roll part of this out to one fourth
inch thick layer and spread over a round shallow cake pan about one half
inch deep. Bake very slightly. When cold spread with thin layer of jam
or jelly, then put with bag and star tube, stripes of macaroon over and
bake in a slow oven nice and brown. Put some icing between the stripes
after tart is baked.


PASTE FOR MACAROONS AND MACAROON TART.

Take one pound Hoide's Almond paste and mix fine with one pound powdered
sugar then add gradually the whites of about eight eggs until the paste
gets smooth and soft enough to pass through the bag and tube. For
macaroons make paste softer and use round tube or teaspoon. Bake on
paper in slow oven.


BUCKEYE CAKE.

MRS. POLLEY.

Two cups sugar, two thirds cup of butter, three eggs beaten separately,
one cup of sweet milk, two teaspoons of baking powder sifted with three
cups of flour, one teaspoon extract of lemon.


HARRISON CAKE.

One cup of sugar, one cup of butter, four eggs well beaten, one cup
molasses, one pound stoned raisins, one teaspoonful each of saleratus,
cloves, cinnamon and allspice, one nutmeg and four cups of flour.


ORANGE CAKE.

MRS. A. J. ELLIOTT.

Two cups of flour, one scant cup of milk, one cup of sugar, half a cup
of butter, two eggs, one teaspoon soda and two of cream of tartar.
Divided in six parts and spread as thin as possible in pans of uniform
size. Bake about three minutes: when done lay together with layers of
orange filling between. Method: cream sugar and butter together, then
add milk in which the soda and cream of tartar has been dissolved, then
the eggs well beaten and lastly the flour into which drop a pinch of
salt. Beat well and don't scrimp the butter.

ORANGE FILLING.--The juice and part of the grated rind of two oranges,
then add one cup of sugar. One tablespoon of flour dissolved in cup of
water which is gradually added, then beat the yolk of the egg well, and
mix well together, and boil in a steamer until it is as thick as custard
or boil about three quarters of an hour. The steamer is the safest as
the flour is liable to stick to the pan otherwise.


ORANGE CAKE.

MISS FRY.

Two cups of flour, one cup of sugar, one half cup milk, two teaspoons
baking powder, one tablespoon butter, one tablespoon orange juice, two
eggs. Beat eggs and sugar, add butter (melted), orange juice and rind
of one orange, then milk. Add flour and powder and bake one half hour.
Filling:--juice and rind of one orange, one tablespoon each of lemon
juice and cornstarch, two tablespoons sugar, one teaspoon butter, one
egg. Put orange juice rind, and lemon juice into a cup, then fill with
cold water. When it boils, add cornstarch with cold water. Beat yolk of
egg with sugar, add this, then butter. When cold spread between layers.
Icing. Beat whites of two eggs, add three fourths cup powdered sugar.


LADY CAKE.

MRS. GEORGE LAWRENCE.

One half cup butter, one and one half cups granulated sugar, one cup
lukewarm water, two and one half cups of sifted flour, four eggs, whites
only, one lemon juice and grated rind, two teaspoons of vanilla extract,
two teaspoons of baking powder. Cream the butter in an earthen dish with
silver spoon, stirring till light cream color, add sugar beating
thoroughly. Sift the flour, add one half of it and the cup of water a
little of each, till cup is finished. Beat whites of eggs stiff and dry,
add one half, beat, then the rest of the flour. Beat well, add the
juice, and grated rind of lemon or vanilla as preferred, next the baking
powder and the balance of the beaten eggs. Turn quickly into a deep,
well buttered tin, and bake for three quarters of an hour. The tin
should be ready for use immediately the baking powder is added. When
cold, frost with white icing.


LEMON CAKE.

MISS BEEMER.

One half cup of butter creamed well with one and a half cups of sugar,
stir in the yolks of three eggs and one cup of milk; two teaspoonfuls of
baking powder sifted with three cups of flour and added alternately with
the whites of the three eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in rather a
quick oven in three tins of uniform size, and place, between layers, a
frosting made of the grated rind of one, and juice of two lemons, and
three fourths cup of sugar. Let boil and throw it over the well beaten
whites of two eggs. This cake is one that keeps well for five or six
days.


NUT CAKE.

MRS. GEORGE M. CRAIG.

One cup sugar, half a cup of butter whipped to a cream with sugar, four
eggs, one tablespoonful of milk if needed, quarter of pound of almond
nuts chopped fine, two ounces lemon peel, two teaspoonfuls of baking
powder and one cup of flour.


NEW PORT CAKE.

MRS. THEOPHILUS OLIVER.

Two eggs, one half cup of white sugar, one half cup of butter, (melted)
one quart of flour, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one cup sweet
milk, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in hot water. Bake in a deep
pan (eaten hot).


PLAIN CAKE.

MRS. GILMOUR.

One half cup butter, one cup sugar, three eggs, two cups of flour, two
and one half teaspoons baking powder, one cup of milk.


SANDWICH CAKE.

MRS. FRANK LAURIE.

Four eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, one teaspoonful of baking
powder; mix the yolks and the sugar together, then whip up the whites,
mix in with the yolks and sugar, then add the flour and the baking
powder putting the latter into the flour. Bake in a hot oven.


SANDWICH CAKE.

MISS M. SAMPSON.

Two thirds cup sugar, one egg, two thirds cup milk, butter the size of
an egg, one and one half cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls baking
powder. Bake in a quick oven.


SPANISH BUN.

MRS. THOM.

One and one half cups sugar, four eggs, leave out the whites of three
for icing, three fourths cup butter, one cup milk, one tablespoonful
cinnamon, one teaspoon ginger, one half nutmeg, two cups flour, three
spoonfuls baking powder. Bake in flat tin well greased.


ICING.

Take the whites of three eggs, beat to a stiff froth then add a cup of
light brown sugar; while the cake is hot, spread this over, return to
the oven and brown.


WHITE CAKE. (Delicious.)

MRS. STOCKING.

One cup sugar, one half cup butter, whites of two eggs, one cup of milk
or water, two cups of flour, two teaspoons baking powder, cream the
butter, stir in sugar, then add milk or water, beaten whites, flour, and
lastly the extract.

NUT FILLING.--One cup milk, one cup nut meats, one tablespoon flour, one
egg, one half cup sugar, salt. Heat milk sugar and nuts, add egg and
flour stirred together; cook until thick.


WALNUT CAKE.

MRS. PEIFFER.

Cream one cup granulated sugar and one fourth of butter, and two eggs,
then two heaping cups flour, two heaping teaspoons baking powder sifted
four times: while your flour is still heaped in the mixing bowl on top
of the butter, etc., add one heaping saucer chopped walnuts, then use as
much as you need of one cup sweet milk to make a nice stiff batter, not
too thin.




ICINGS FOR CAKES.


APPLE FILLING FOR CAKE.

MRS. W. W. HENRY.

One apple grated, one cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla, the
white of one egg beaten stiff.


CHOCOLATE FROSTING.

MISS MAUD THOMSON.

White of one egg, eight tablespoons powdered sugar, one inch square of
chocolate, one half teaspoon vanilla. Do not whip the egg but stir the
sugar into it beating until smooth. Place the chocolate in a teacup,
float the latter in a saucepan full of boiling water. Cover the pan and
when the chocolate melts stir into the frosting and add vanilla and
spread upon the cake.


CHOCOLATE ICING (Original).

MRS. E. A. PFEIFFER.

One cup granulated sugar, two squares of chocolate, boil till thick (do
not stir) then turn into beaten white of one egg.


BOILED ICING.

One cup granulated sugar, boiled till it threads, then turned into the
beaten whites of two eggs, and whip till cold.


CHOCOLATE PASTE.

MRS. BENSON BENNETT.

Melt two ounces Baker's chocolate, add one tablespoonful of water, and
three of milk, one piece of butter, one egg well beaten, one cup of
sugar, make as in lemon marmalade.


FIG CAKE FILLING.

MRS. STOCKING.

One pound figs, one half cup sugar, two thirds cup of water. Boil figs
after being chopped fine with sugar and water until thick.


MAPLE SYRUP ICING.

MISS M. W. HOME.

One cup maple syrup, boil until it will harden slightly when dropped in
cold water, then pour on the stiffly beaten white of an egg and stir
constantly until it thickens, then spread on cake.


MAPLE SUGAR ICING.

MRS. ALBERT CLINT.

One cup of maple sugar, six teaspoonsful water, boiled till thick. White
of one egg beaten crisp to be stirred in with the syrup until cool,
then spread on the cake. Stir quickly when mixing the syrup and egg.


ORANGE JELLY ICING.

Two oranges, one lemon, one cup of sugar, one cup of water, one
tablespoonful of cornstarch. Grate the rinds, add the juice of oranges
and lemon; mix the cornstarch with a little water, put in a saucepan and
let it come to the boil until thick and clear, stir constantly. When
cool enough spread between cakes.


SOFT ICING FOR CAKES.

Two cups of white sugar (teacups), three fourths cup of sweet milk, one
half a tablespoonful of washed butter. Boil for ten minutes, take off
and stir constantly till it begins to thicken, then spread immediately
over cakes. Put in flavoring to taste when you begin to stir.


CREAM ICING.

MRS. RATTRAY.

Take a piece of butter about one half the size of an almond, wash
thoroughly to remove salt, beat it to a cream with one tablespoonful of
rich cream, flavor with a few drops of lemon, vanilla or any flavoring
preferred, then thicken with powdered sugar and spread on cake with a
knife dipped in cold water. Let stand before using an hour or longer.




GINGERBREAD AND SMALL CAKES.


GINGERBREAD.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

Three fourths pound of butter, two cups of milk, five cups of flour, two
cups of molasses, two cups of sugar, five eggs, four tablespoons of
ginger. Mix butter and sugar together. Mix the molasses and milk and
flour, then the eggs, whip the latter well but not separately, the
risings put in last, one teaspoonful of baking soda, and two of cream
tartar; if sour milk or cream is used the latter need not be used; a
large flat pan with well buttered paper. Cooked in a moderate oven it
takes about three quarters of an hour to bake. Sour cream makes it much
richer and not quite so much butter required.


SPONGE GINGERCAKE.

MRS. ANDREW T. LOVE.

Four eggs, three cups molasses, one cup sugar, one half cup of milk or
water, one half cup butter, three small tablespoons ginger, one half
teaspoon nutmeg, cloves, cinnamon, one and one half pounds flour light
weight, three teaspoon baking powder, lemon or vanilla flavoring.


SOFT GINGERBREAD.

MRS. W. R. DEAN.

One quart of flour, rub in it one half cup butter, one pint of molasses,
two eggs, one tablespoon ginger, two teaspoons soda dissolved in a
tumbler of milk. About forty minutes to bake.


SOFT GINGERBREAD.

MISS BEEMER.

Two cups molasses, one half cup of shortening (lard), three fourths cup
boiling water, one tablespoon each of ginger, cinnamon and saleratus,
(soda) two tablespoonfuls vinegar, three and one half cups of flour, one
teaspoon salt (even), melt the molasses and shortening on the stove
slowly, mix the saleratus with the boiling water and add it to the
above, then add the vinegar; mix the ginger, cinnamon and salt with the
flour and stir in slowly. Bake in a long flat tin in a moderate oven
about half an hour.


COOKIES.

MRS. W. H. POLLEY.

Three eggs, three cups sugar, one and one half cups of butter, one half
cup sweet milk, one teaspoonful saleratus, one tablespoonful of caraway
seeds and enough flour to roll out.


MOLASSES COOKIES.

One cup molasses boiled, one half cup lard, one half cup of butter, one
teaspoonful each of ginger and saleratus, flour enough to roll out.


OATMEAL COOKIES.

MRS. WADDLE.

One cup hot water, one cup butter and lard mixed, one cup of sugar, two
cups of oatmeal, two cups of flour, one teaspoon soda in a little
boiling water, roll thin and bake in a hot oven.


COOKIES. (Splendid).

MRS. FRANK GLASS.

One cup sugar, one cup butter, two eggs, three teaspoons baking powder,
one tablespoon water, flour to roll, one teaspoon vanilla, roll out but
a little of the dough at a time.


GINGER SNAPS.

One and one half cups molasses, one cup brown sugar, pinch of ginger,
one teaspoon soda, one half cup sour milk, one half cup of butter, one
half cup lard, flour to roll.


DOUGHNUTS.

One half cup butter and one cup sugar beaten together, three eggs beaten
light, one half cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, flour enough to roll
fry in hot lard.


FRIED CAKES.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

One cup sugar, butter size of an egg, one cup milk, two eggs, one quart
of flour, two teaspoons cream of tartar, one half teaspoon of soda,
spice to taste.


CRULLERS.

MRS. ARCHIBALD LAURIE.

One cup sour cream, two eggs beaten separately, three fourths of a cup
sugar, one half teaspoon soda dissolved in boiling water, one teaspoon
cream of tartar sifted with flour, flour enough to roll rather soft, and
boil in fresh lard.


CRULLERS.

MISS GREEN.

One pint of cream, four eggs, one cup of sugar, three teaspoonfuls of
baking powder, flour enough to make a batter fit for rolling.


CROQUIGNOLES.

MADAME A. GRENIER.

One half pint of cream, one half pint of milk, four eggs well beaten,
three quarters of a pound of granulated sugar, one quarter of a pound of
butter blended with the flour, one teaspoon of soda dissolved in
vinegar, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, flour enough to roll out.


CROQUIGNOLES.

MRS. ARCHIE COOK.

Three eggs, one cup of milk, one quarter of a pound of butter, one and
one half cups of sugar, three teaspoons of baking powder, flour enough
to roll out and a little essence of lemon.


DOUGHNUTS.

MR. JOSEPH FLEIG. (Baker, Grenoble Hotel, N. Y.)

One half pound sugar, three oz. butter, four eggs, one pint of milk, a
little essence of lemon and two pounds of flour with one ounce of baking
powder.


WAFER JUMBLES.

One half pound sugar, one half pound butter and one half pound flour,
three eggs and vanilla flavoring. Place on a long flat pan using bag and
tube, bake in good oven.


PUFFETS. (Hot tea cake.)

MRS. BENSON BENNETT.

One and one half pints of flour, three eggs, one half cup of butter, one
half cup of powdered sugar, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one
ditto of carbonate of soda, one half pint of milk.


BOSTON CREAM CAKE.

MRS. JOHN MACNAUGHTON.

Boil one quarter pound butter in one half pint of water. Stir in while
boiling six ounces of flour. Take from the fire and stir in gradually
(when it has cooled a few minutes) five eggs well beaten. Add one
quarter teaspoon soda and a little salt. Above recipe makes about two
dozens cakes. They must be baked from twenty minutes to half an hour. Be
sure to let them bake enough. Do not think them burning unless you see
them doing so.


CREAM FOR FILLING.

Boil three quarters of a pint of milk, and stir in while boiling two
eggs, one cup of sugar, and one half a cup of flour beaten together very
smoothly. Flavor to taste, and when cool fill the cake through a small
slit made in the side of each with a sharp knife. The cakes must also be
cool before they are filled.


DOMINO CAKES.

Mix together as quickly as possible two cupfuls of sugar with one of
butter, then the beaten yolks and lastly the stiffly whipped whites of
three eggs, and a teaspoonful extract of lemon. Mix in just enough flour
to roll the mass out very thin and cut it into domino shape. After the
cakes are in the pan, brush with the white of an egg, using a feather,
and sprinkle them with comfits. Bake a light brown. These are delicious
and pretty, and will keep fresh a long time.


QUEEN CAKES.

MRS. SMYTHE.

One cup of flour, four tablespoons of sugar, two tablespoons butter, one
half teaspoon baking powder, ditto of lemon extract, two eggs and a few
currants. Beat eggs with sugar, add butter melted, then the flour and
essence of lemon, sprinkle a few currants at the bottom of small moulds.
Bake about fifteen minutes.


SHREWSBURY CAKES.

MISS HENRY.

Rub to a cream six ounces of sugar, with six ounces of butter, add two
well beaten eggs and work in twelve ounces flour, adding a teaspoonful
of rose water. Roll out thin and cut into small cakes.




CONFECTIONS.


    "Sweet meats, messengers of strong prevailment in an unhardened
    youth."--SHAKESPEARE.


SALTED ALMONDS.

MRS. BENSON BENNETT.

Blanch, put into a baking pan, and to each pound allow a tablespoonful
of butter, stand them in the oven, watch and shake until all are nicely
browned; take out and lift carefully from the grease, dust thickly with
salt, and put in a cool place at once.


BUTTER SCOTCH. (Original.)

MRS. E. A. PFEIFFER.

One pint of maple syrup, butter size of an egg, boil till stiff when
dropped in cold water.


CHOCOLATE CREAMS.

MRS. EDWARD C. POWERS.

Two pounds confectioner's sugar, one fourth pound grated cocoa-nut, one
tablespoonful vanilla, a pinch of salt, whites of three eggs (beaten
very stiff); mix all together, and roll into small balls; let stand
one-half hour; then dip into the chocolate prepared thus: One half cake
Baker's chocolate (grated fine), two tablespoonfuls butter. Warm the
butter; mix in the chocolate. When cool dip the creams in, and set on a
buttered plate to harden.


VANILLA TAFFY.

Three cups of granulated sugar, one cup of cold water, three
tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Cook _without stirring_ until it threads; add
one tablespoonful of vanilla; let cool; pull until white; cut into small
squares.


EVERTON TOFFEE.

MRS. FRANK LAURIE.

Put one pound of brown sugar, a breakfast cupful of cold water, eight
ounces of unsalted butter, mix well together in a small preserving pan,
stir till quite through the boil. Test the strength of the toffee as you
do barley sugar.


BUTTER SCOTCH.

MRS. W. R. DEAN.

Two cups brown sugar, one tablespoon water, butter size of an egg. Boil
without stirring. Try it in cold water, and it is done when it hardens
on the spoon. (Add one teaspoon vanilla if preferred). Pour on buttered
plates. Mark into squares before it hardens, and when it is cool it will
break off neatly.


CHOCOLATE FUDGE.

Four cups sugar (white), two cups milk, one pound butter, one cup grated
chocolate, vanilla to taste. Nuts may be added. Boil and beat thoroughly
(as for sucre √† la cr√™me) pour on buttered plates and cut into squares.


NUT CANDY.

Two cups white granulated sugar, one half cup sweet milk. Boil for
_about_ ten minutes, and add three quarters cup cut up walnuts. Remove
from stove and beat thoroughly and when it thickens pour out on buttered
plates. Cocoanut candy may be made same way. If the candy does not
thicken after being beaten, it is not boiled sufficiently and can be put
back on stove. Stir constantly through, if the _nuts_ are in.




PICKLES.


    "Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers."--MOTHER GOOSE.


CANADIAN TOMATO CHUTNEY. (Splendid.)

MRS. RATTRAY.

One peck green tomatoes, twelve large red onions, one large cauliflower,
two heads celery, two heads garlic, six red peppers. Wash tomatoes and
dry them; peel the onions, cut the cauliflower into small pieces, also
the celery and peppers and scald and separate the garlic. When all are
prepared slice the tomatoes and onions, and put a deep layer into your
preserving pan mixing some of the other ingredients with them, then
sprinkle with coarse salt, and continue layer by layer until all are in
the pan. Let this stand twenty-four hours, then drain the liquor off and
add the following, placing all on the fire to boil at least two hours,
or until soft; three pints of vinegar, three pounds brown sugar, one
tablespoonful of cloves (ground), and ditto of cinnamon, allspice and
pepper, one ounce of turmeric powder. Stir all from the bottom
frequently lest it should stick and scorch.


TOMATO CHUTNEY.

MRS. J. MACNAUGHTON.

Slice one peck of green tomatoes into a jar, sprinkle a little salt over
each layer and let stand for twenty-four hours, drain off the liquor;
put the tomatoes into a kettle with a teaspoonful each of the following
spices: ground ginger, allspice, cloves, mace, cinnamon, a teaspoonful
of scraped horse-radish, twelve small or three large red peppers, three
onions, a cup full of brown sugar, cover all with vinegar; boil slowly
for three hours.


CRAB APPLE PICKLE.

MRS. J. MACNAUGHTON.

One quart good vinegar, six cups brown or maple sugar, one teaspoonful
each cloves, cinnamon and allspice. Boil vinegar and sugar together,
skim and add spices. Take the blossom end from the apples and put as
many in at a time as will lie on the top of the vinegar without crowding
and cook until easily pierced with a straw. Seal in glass fruit jars.


CHILI SAUCE.

MRS. WADDLE.

Six large tomatoes, three small green peppers, one onion, two large
tablespoons sugar, salt to taste, one and one half cups vinegar,
tomatoes peeled, peppers and onions chopped fine and all boiled one
hour.


CHOW CHOW.

MRS. SEPTIMUS BARROW.

One peck green tomatoes chopped fine, one dozen good large onions
chopped fine, two quarts vinegar, two pounds brown sugar, one tablespoon
each of allspice and cloves, two tablespoons each of ground mustard,
black pepper and salt, one half teacup grated horse-radish. Mix all
together and stew until perfectly tender, stirring often to prevent
burning. Seal in glass jars while hot.


CHOW CHOW. (Original.)

MRS. E. A. PFEIFFER.

Two gallon tomatoes, twelve onions, two quarts vinegar (malt), one quart
of sugar (brown), two tablespoons of coarse salt, ditto of mustard, and
black pepper, one tablespoon of allspice and ditto of cloves.


CELERY SAUCE.

MRS. THEOPHILUS OLIVER.

Fifteen ripe tomatoes, two peppers, five large onions, seven and a half
tablespoonfuls of white sugar, two and one half tablespoonfuls of salt,
three cups of vinegar, two heads of celery, chop celery onions, and
peppers, and boil all together an hour and a half.


MUSTARD PICKLE.

MRS. J. MACNAUGHTON.

Six ounces ground mustard, two ounces corn starch, one and one half
ounces of turmeric, one ounce curry powder, two quarts white wine
vinegar. Mix the ingredients in cold vinegar and stir into the rest of
the vinegar when boiling. Stir half an hour and pour over the pickles
which have been covered with a strong brine of salt and boiled for three
minutes, then strained and put in bottles or jars. This is nice for
cauliflower and is sufficient for one large head which must be cut into
small pieces. Other vegetables such as gherkins may be used.


PICKLE FOR CORN BEEF.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

Two gallons of water (soft the best), two and one half pounds salt, one
half pound sugar, two ounces of salt petre.


PICKLED PEACHES.

MISS EDITH HENRY.

Eight pounds of peaches, four pounds of white sugar, one quart of
vinegar, one ounce of cinnamon, one ounce of cloves. Select large firm
freestone peaches, remove the skins and put into a jar. Put the sugar,
vinegar, and spices into a kettle, let it come to a boil, skim, and
pour over the fruit. The next day pour off the syrup and boil again and
pour over the peaches. Then the third day, put the fruit and all into
the kettle and boil until tender, or about ten minutes. If you use
ground spices put in cheese cloth bag.


SWEET TOMATO PICKLE.

MRS. JOHN JACK.

One peck of green tomatoes sliced, six large onions sliced, strew a
teacupful of salt over them, let them remain over night, drain off in
the morning, then take two quarts of water and one of vinegar, boil them
in it fifteen or twenty minutes, put them in a sieve to drain, then take
four quarts vinegar, two pounds brown sugar, half pound white mustard
seed, two tablespoonfuls ground allspice, same of cloves, cinnamon,
ginger, and mustard and one teaspoonful cayenne pepper. Put all in a
kettle and cook fifteen minutes slowly. Follow directions, and you will
pronounce them capital.


TOMATO CATSUP.

MISS GREEN.

One peck of ripe tomatoes, one quart onions in an enamel kettle: boil
till soft, mash and strain through a coarse sieve. One quart or more
vinegar and from two to three tablespoons of salt, one ounce of mace and
one tablespoon each of black pepper, cayenne pepper, and ground cloves,
one and one half pounds brown sugar. Mix and boil slowly for two hours.
Bottle and seal.




PRESERVES.


    "Will't please your honor taste of these conserves."
                                                   --SHAKESPEARE.


CANNING FRUIT.

MISS M. SAMPSON.

To can strawberries, raspberries or plums: to each pound of sugar add
one half pint of water, boil till you have a rich syrup, let stand till
cold; have your jars packed full of raw fruit (not crushed) and fill
with the cold syrup, put on the covers and screws, (not the rubber
rings,) and place in cold water up to the neck of the jars, you will
need straw or chips between the jars to prevent them touching each other
or burning on the bottom, let the water boil for fifteen minutes, have
some hot syrup to fill jars, put on rubber rings, screw up tightly and
keep in a cool dark place.


CANNED FRUIT JUICES.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

Fruit juice may be kept for a long time by canning the same as whole
fruit. They are convenient for water ices and summer beverages. Mash
the fruit and rub the pulp through a fine sieve. Mix about three pounds
of sugar with one quart of fruit juice and pulp. Fill Mason's jars with
the syrup, cover and place in a heater with cold water to cover nearly
to the top of the jar. Let the water boil half an hour, then fill each
jar to the brim, seal and cool in the water.


TO BRANDY PEACHES.

To three pounds of sugar add a pint and a half water; boil and skim it;
prepare eight pounds of ripe clingstone peaches: wash and rub with a
coarse towel until all the down is off, then pierce them with a fork and
throw them into the syrup and boil them until a sharp straw can
punctuate them: as they soften put them into your jar, which must be
kept closely covered. Boil your syrup until it thickens, while hot, add
a quart of the best brandy and throw it over your peaches, tie the jar
down closely.


CURRANT JELLY.

Currants should not be over ripe. Equal parts of red and white currants
or currants and raspberries make a delicately colored and flavored
jelly. Pick over and remove the leaves and poor fruit, and if filthy
wash and drain them but do not stem them. Mash them in a porcelain
kettle, with wooden pestle without heating as that makes the jelly dark.
Let them drain in a flannel bag over night. _Do not_ squeeze them, or
the jelly will be cloudy. In the morning measure a bowl of sugar for
each bowl of juice, and heat the sugar carefully in an earthern dish in
the oven. Stir it often to prevent burning: boil the juice twenty
minutes and skim thoroughly. Add the hot sugar and boil from three to
five minutes or till it thickens on a spoon when exposed to the air.
Turn at once into glasses and let them remain in the sun several days
then cover with paper dipped in brandy and paste paper over the tops of
the glasses. One who is authority on this subject recommends covering
with melted paraffine, or putting a lump of paraffine in the jelly while
still hot. After draining the juice, the currants may be squeezed and a
second quality of jelly made, it may not be clear but will answer for
some purposes.


CANDIED PEEL.

MRS. DAVID BELL.

Put the lemon or orange skins, in strong salt and water, when they are
soft enough to pass a straw through, take them out and soak them
changing the water till all the salt taste is gone, then simmer them in
thin brown sugar syrup till clear; take them out, place on a dish, and
let them remain for a day or two. Boil the syrup till thick, then fill
the skins with it and put away to dry.


LEMON HONEY. (Filling.)

MRS. FRANK GLASS.

One pound of butter, four pounds of sugar, two dozen eggs leaving out
eight whites, rind and juice of one dozen lemons. Put all together, and
let simmer until it thickens like honey. Put into jars, can be kept for
years.


PUMPKIN JAM.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

Peel and seed, then, cut into pieces two or three inches square, lay on
a dish to dry till next day, then put into the preserving pan and barely
cover with molasses. To a medium sized pumpkin put one ounce cloves and
about a dessertspoon of ginger or as much as will taste; let it boil
until the pumpkin is quite soft. One half dozen apples (sour) just cored
not peeled is a great improvement. The molasses must only come to the
top of your pieces, not nearly cover them.


FRUIT JELLY.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE.

Dissolve two ounces of tartaric acid in one quart of cold water, pour it
on to five pounds of strawberries, currants, or raspberries. Let it
stand twenty-four hours. Then strain it without pressing or bruising the
fruit. To every pint of clear juice add one and one half pounds of white
sugar. Stir frequently till the sugar is dissolved. Then bottle and cork
air tight. Keep in a cool, dark place. When required for use dissolve
one ounce gelatine in one half pint boiling water, add one and one half
pints syrup. Pour in a mould and set away to stiffen. Serve with whipped
cream.


GRAPE JELLY.

MRS. GEORGE ELLIOTT.

Mash the grapes in a preserving pan, put them over the fire and cook
until thoroughly done. Strain through a jelly bag and to each pint of
juice allow one pound of sugar. Boil the juice rapidly for ten minutes,
add the sugar made hot in the pan in the oven, and boil rapidly three
minutes more. Excellent.


MARMALADE.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

Cut the oranges in half and work in a spoon to remove the inside. Slice
the peel very fine. Take the skin and seeds from the pulp and mix peel
and pulp together and weigh them. For every pound of fruit, pour three
pints of cold water over it and let stand twenty four hours. Boil till
chips are tender (about an hour and a half). This absorbs a great deal
of the fluid. Let it stand another twenty-four hours. To every pound of
boiled fruit, put one and one quarter pounds of sugar. Boil till syrup
jellies, and chips are transparent. Boil pippins and skins in a gallon
of water, and strain.


BITTER ORANGE MARMALADE.

MRS. R. STEWART.

One dozen bitter oranges, three sweet oranges, three lemons. Slice or
shave the bitter oranges and lemons _very thin_ laying aside the pips
in a bowl; pare or slice the sweet oranges. To every pint of fruit add
four pints cold water, cover the pips with water, let stand for
twenty-four hours, boil till quite tender putting the pips in a muslin
bag when ready: to every pound of fruit add one and one half pounds
white sugar and boil till it jellies, from twenty to thirty minutes.


CURRANT MARMALADE.

MRS. W. W. HENRY.

Seven pounds of currants, six pounds of sugar, two pounds of raisins,
two oranges. Cook one and one half hours. Strain out the juice of
currants, seed the raisins, and chop fine. Use all of the orange but the
seeds, chop fine.


RHUBARB MARMALADE.

MRS. THEOPHILUS OLIVER.

Peel and cut the rhubarb into small pieces, take the rind of one lemon,
cut into chips; to each two pounds of the rhubarb then weigh three
quarters of a pound of white sugar to each pound of the fruit. Put the
fruit and sugar in a basin in layers and let it stand all night. Pour
off the syrup and boil it for twenty minutes, add the fruit and boil for
twenty minutes more, when the marmalade should be ready to put in pots.


PRESERVED RAW PINEAPPLE.

MRS. W. COOK.

Pare the pineapples and take out all the eyes. With a sharp knife, cut
the pineapple in thin slices cutting down sides until the heart is
reached, this is to be discarded. Weigh the sliced pineapple and put in
a large earthen dish. Add to it as many pounds of granulated sugar as
there are pounds of fruit and stir well. Pack this mixture in quart or
pint jars: cover tightly and put away. The pineapple will keep a year or
more and be perfectly tender and fine flavored. It is best to choose
fruit not over ripe.


PRESERVED TOMATOES. (Original).

MRS. E. A. PFEIFFER.

Take two gallons large smooth green tomatoes, make a pickle of three
pints of vinegar, and one quart of water, two tablespoons salt, one
tablespoon each, spice, cloves and cinnamon, one pound of sugar: scald
spices ten minutes in vinegar and water, then add tomatoes and scald
till tender, slice for table, pour sauce over. N. B. Strain spices, over
the tomatoes, and seal while warm; some prefer without salt.


TO PRESERVE TOMATOES FOR WINTER USE.

MRS. ERNEST F. WURTELE.

To fifteen pounds tomatoes, put three ounces of white sugar, and three
ounces of salt, boil very hard for twenty minutes. Fill up pint jars to
overflowing and screw down tight; as they cool off, screw them again so
as to be sure they are quite tight. This quantity fills ten pint jars.
Skin the tomatoes before boiling, this is quickly done by pouring
boiling water over them.




BEVERAGES.


BOSTON CREAM. (A summer drink).

MRS. W. FRASER.

Make a syrup of four pounds of white sugar, with four quarts of water;
boil; when cold add four ounces of tartaric acid, one and one half ounce
of essence of lemon, and the whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff froth;
bottle. A wineglass of the cream to a tumbler of water, with sufficient
carbonate of soda to make it effervesce.


CLARET CUP.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

Six bottles of claret, one of sherry, three wine glasses of brandy, five
bottles of soda water, sugar to taste.


GINGER BEER.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE.

One quarter pound white ginger, two ounces cream tartar, two pounds
white sugar, juice of two lemons, three gallons of hot water; boil one
hour, cork while hot.


GINGERETTE.

MRS. ALBERT CLINT.

Four and one half pounds of loaf sugar, one and one half ounce tartaric
acid, four ounces tincture of ginger, one ounce essence of capsicum, two
drops of cassia. Put the above ingredients into a crock that will hold
two gallons of boiling water; one pound of brown sugar to be burnt in a
pan till it is the color of coffee, then add to it the other
ingredients. The boiling water is the last thing to be poured on the
ingredients. Stir until the sugar is dissolved. When cold, bottle, cork
tight and put away for use. The burnt sugar gives it a pretty colour.


GINGER CORDIAL.

MRS. ERSKINE SCOTT.

Ten lemons, one gallon of whisky, six ounces of root ginger, (to be
bruised) and put with the whiskey on the lemons, after cutting them up
in slices, and left for three weeks. Then take five pounds of white
sugar, and pour over it three pints of boiling water, and put on the
fire until it is melted. When it is cold, pour over the lemons, having
first strained them, bottle and cork tight.


GRAPE JUICE.

MRS. GEORGE LAWRENCE.

To ten pounds grapes (Concord), two pounds white sugar, wash grapes,
cover them with water in preserving kettle, and boil for thirty
minutes, strain through coarse cheese cloth, let cool, add sugar, boil
twenty minutes longer, and bottle while _boiling hot_, and cork and seal
with sealing wax.


GRAPE WINE.

MRS. E. A. PFEIFFER.

Take fresh blue grapes, stems must be green, mash well, put in
preserving pan, and warm, not boiling heat, strain, first through cheese
cloth, then through flannel, return to pan, sugar to taste, bring to
boiling heat, bottle while hot, cork well and seal. Have kept it over a
year without any fermentation. Original.


GRAPE JUICE.

MRS. J. MACNAUGHTON.

Pick over and wash your grapes. Concords are said to be preferable. Put
them in your porcelain kettle with just enough water to prevent
sticking. When the skins crack remove from fire, pour into a flannel
bag, not more than a quart at once, and press out the juice. Add nearly
half as much sugar as juice and return to the kettle. When the sugar is
all dissolved and the juice boiling, pour into cans and seal. Pint cans
are preferable; when opened this can be diluted with water to suit the
taste, and will keep perfectly sweet for several days if kept in a cool
place.


RASPBERRY ACID.

MRS. GEORGE M. CRAIG.

Dissolve five ounces of tartaric acid in two quarts of water, pour it on
twelve pounds of red raspberries in a large bowl, let it stand
twenty-four hours, strain it without pressing: to a pint of this liquor,
add one and a half pounds of white sugar, stir until dissolved, bottle
but do not cork for several days, when it is ready for use two or three
tablespoons in a glass of ice water will make a delicious drink.


RASPBERRY VINEGAR.

MRS. STUART OLIVER.

Cover with vinegar and let them stand about a week, stirring every day,
then strain the fruit and to each pint add a pound of sugar. Boil till
it seems as a syrup about one half an hour, bottle, cork when cold.


LEMON SYRUP.

MRS. THOM.

One pound powdered frosting sugar, one quarter pound tartaric acid, one
quarter pound carbonate of soda, forty drops essence of lemon. Add the
latter to the sugar, mix well. Having dried it well pass it through a
sieve, and keep in a closely corked bottle. A teaspoonful will suffice
for a tumbler of water.


LEMON SYRUP.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

Two ounces citric acid, one ounce tartaric acid, one half ounce epsom
salts, five pounds white sugar. Grate the rind of three lemons, juice of
six lemons, three pints boiling water, when cold add the whites of two
eggs well beaten, strain through muslin, and then bottle.


LEMON SYRUP.

MRS. ARCHIBALD LAURIE.

One quart juice of fresh lemons, the yellow skin only of six lemons, one
quart boiling water, four pounds white sugar. Let it stand for
twenty-four hours. If not quite dissolved melt over a gentle heat.
Filter through a jelly bag and bottle tightly corked, will keep for
three months in a cool place.




COOKING FOR THE SICK.


NOURISHING CREAM FOR CONVALESCENTS.

MRS. BLAIR.

Beat the yolks of four eggs, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, and the rind
(grated lightly), and juice of an orange, or lemon. Add a teaspoonful of
powdered sugar to the whites of the eggs and beat until stiff. Place the
vessel containing the beaten yolks in a pot of boiling water, cook
gently, stirring all the time. When it begins to thicken stir in the
whites of the eggs until thoroughly mixed, then put it to cool. Serve in
small glasses.


BEEF TEA FOR INVALIDS.

MRS. W. COOK.

One pound lean beef and one pound veal, cut up small, and put in a wide
mouthed jar. Pour two wineglasses of cold water or wine on it, one
teaspoon salt, and a little mace if liked. Cork the jar well and tie a
bladder over it. Place the jar in a deep saucepan of cold water which
must not be allowed to cover the cork. Let it boil slowly four hours or
more and strain through a sieve. One tablespoonful of this is equal to a
cup of ordinary beef tea.


CALF'S FOOT JELLY.

Make your stock of calves feet and two ox feet. Add to it if very firm a
pint of water, juice of four lemons and rind of two, five eggs, shells
and all, whites beaten well, one ounce cinnamon, one ounce cloves, sugar
to taste, about one and one half pounds and one bottle of sherry. Put
all into the pan and stir well. Let it boil a minute or two and then
throw in a cup of cold water, cover closely for ten minutes, skim and
run through the bag.


GRUEL.

MRS. SMYTH.

One large cup oatmeal, cover with cold water, stir well and let stand a
few minutes. Strain, adding a little more boiling water or half milk, to
the water strained. Stir it until it comes to the boil. Cook five
minutes or longer. When ready for serving, add a little salt, sugar and
nutmeg.


BAKED LEMON FOR A COLD.

MRS. SEPTIMUS BARROW.

Dose a teaspoonful. Bake a lemon till soft, take out all the inside, and
mix with as much sugar as it will hold, strain and stand till cold when
it will jelly.




BREAD, BUNS, FRITTERS.


BOSTON BROWN BREAD.

MRS. RICHARD TURNER.

One cup Graham flour, one cup corn meal, one cup wheat flour, one large
cup raisins, one teaspoon baking soda, one half cup warm water, one
pinch of salt. Steam four hours: nice sliced and steamed for breakfast.


BROWN BREAD.

MRS. R. STEWART.

One cup Graham flour, one cup wheat, one cup yellow corn meal, one cup
sweet milk, one half cup molasses. Pinch of salt and a teaspoon baking
soda dissolved in milk. Mix the flour, stir in the molasses, then the
milk and soda. Steam three hours.


HOME MADE BREAD.

MRS. FRANK GLASS.

Soak a cake of yeast in one quart of water, then add six pints of flour
and two teaspoons of salt. Let it stand over night in a rather warm
place. In the morning make it up with another pint of water and three
pints of flour. Let stand for an hour or so, then knead it well and make
into loaves, letting them stand another hour, or until well risen. (Buns
made from part of the sponge.) Take a part of the sponge and add two
teaspoonfuls of butter and one egg.


TEA BISCUIT.

MRS. HYDE.

One pint of flour (sifted three times,) one teaspoon cream of tartar,
one half teaspoon of soda, two teaspoons of sugar, pinch of salt, one
dessert spoon of lard or butter, moisten with milk, and yolk of beaten
egg.


TAFFY BUNS.

MISS M. W. HOME.

Make a good biscuit crust, roll out rather thin spread with the
following mixture. Three quarters of a cup brown sugar, one quarter of a
cup of butter mixed together until smooth, roll as you would a
roly-poly, cut in slices about an inch thick, and bake in rather a hot
oven.


SPANISH BUN.

MRS. THOM.

One and one half cups sugar, four eggs, leave out the whites of three
for icing, three quarters of a cup of butter, one cup milk, one
tablespoonful cinnamon, one teaspoon ginger, one half nutmeg, two cups
flour, three teaspoonfuls baking powder. Bake in flat tin well greased.
Icing. Take three whites of three eggs and beat to a stiff froth, then
add a cup of light brown sugar, while the cake is hot spread this over,
return to the oven and brown.


FRENCH ROLLS OR TWISTS.

MISS LAMPSON.

One quart of milk, one teaspoonful of salt, one small cup brewer's
yeast, flour enough to make a stiff batter. Let it rise, and when very
light, work in one egg and two spoonfuls of butter, and knead in flour
till stiff enough to roll. Let it rise again, and when very light, roll
out, cut in round or braids or any shape preferred. N. B. The egg and
butter may be omitted.


BUTTER-MILK SCONES.

MRS. FRANK LAURIE.

One quart of flour, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar and one of baking
soda, a little piece of butter the size of an egg and one teaspoonful of
salt; mix the butter well in the flour with the hands, put the salt,
baking powder into the flour when sifting, add enough butter-milk to
thicken. Bake in a moderate oven.


GRAHAM MUFFINS.

MADAME J. T.

One cup Graham flour, one half cup ordinary flour, three quarters cup
milk two tablespoons sugar, one large teaspoon baking powder, one large
tablespoon butter, one beaten up egg and salt.


MUFFINS.

MRS. GILMOUR.

Butter the size of an egg, one tablespoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful
of salt, two mashed potatoes, one and one half cups of tepid water or
milk, one cake of yeast, flour enough to make a stiff batter. Put to
rise over night, and in the morning put into buttered rings; put to rise
again until rings are full, then bake in a slow oven.


MUFFINS.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

Two cups sweet milk, four cups of flour, two eggs, two tablespoons of
melted butter, four teaspoons baking powder and pinch of salt.


POP OVERS.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

A breakfast cup of flour, a cup of milk, three eggs and a pinch of salt:
beat the eggs very well, add them to the milk and beat in the flour;
the mixture ought to be the consistency of good custard. Butter the
moulds very well before putting in the batter; don't put more than a
tablespoonful in each. The oven should be very hot and the pop-overs
will only take ten minutes to bake.


POP OVERS.

MISS M'GEE.

Three eggs well beaten, add a tablespoon of melted butter and a little
salt, pour this mixture over one cup of flour and add milk enough to
make a thin batter.


JOHNNY CAKE.

MRS. STUART OLIVER.

One pint of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, (good) one egg, butter
size of an egg, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, about two small cups each
of Indian meal and flour (to make a thin batter.)


SHORT-CAKE.

MRS. R. M. STOCKING.

One pint of flour, one cup of sour cream, one small teaspoon soda, three
eggs.


SHORTBREAD.

MRS. W. REID.

Place on a bake-board two pounds of sifted flour, one pound butter (if
salt, wash,) and half a pound of sugar; this quantity will make four
cakes. Knead all altogether and when well mixed form into cakes half an
inch thick, pinch round the edge, and probe all over with a fork, place
some confits in the centre, then a sheet of stiff paper under each cake,
place on the baking sheet and bake in an oven of moderate heat.


ALMOND SHORTBREAD.

MRS. W. COOK.

One pound ground sweet almonds, eight ounces sugar, eight ounces sifted
flour, eight ounces good butter. The yolks of eight eggs, about eight
drops of essence of ratafia. First see that the ground almonds are
fresh. Mix them with the flour and sugar and then very, very carefully
add a few drops of ratafia. Mix everything thoroughly. Make a space in
centre, and in this drop the yolks of the eggs. Then melt the butter,
add that and mix up the whole together until it is a nice firm stiff
paste. This should now be rolled a great many times; cannot be rolled
too much. When sufficiently rolled to appear like a strip of cream
coloured satin a quarter of an inch thick, cut in small squares with a
sharp knife. Pinch the edges of each square and in centre of each cake,
put a split half of blanched almond. Butter baking tins and bake in a
moderate oven to a fine pale yellow tint. These are delicious and are
particularly good in summer eaten with fruit.


SCOTCH SHORT BREAD.

MRS. BLAIR.

One pound of flour, one half pound butter, six ounces sugar; cream
butter and sugar, add flour. Roll into a smooth ball and work down until
half an inch in thickness, an operation which is rather difficult for a
novice, as it is apt to crack at the edges; but the knack is soon
learned, and the more it is worked the better. Prick with a small
skewer, strew with large carraway comfits, and bake slowly, a pale
brown.


BANANA FRITTERS.

MRS. GEORGE ELLIOTT.

Take six bananas, peel and dip in beaten white of egg, then roll in
bread crumbs. Fry in butter a golden brown. Put them on a dish, squeeze
lemon juice over them, also a little sifted sugar.


APPLE FRITTERS.

MRS. HARRY LAURIE.

Three tart apples, two eggs; one cup milk; one teaspoonful salt; about
one and one half cups of flour; one teaspoonful baking powder. Pare
and core the apples; cut them into rings; dust with sugar and cinnamon;
stand aside to use. Beat eggs without separating until light; add milk,
salt and sufficient flour to make a soft batter; beat well and add the
baking powder; beat again; Have ready very hot a deep pan of lard, dip
each ring of apple in the batter, drop it in the fat and fry until
brown. Serve hot, dusted with powdered sugar.


FRENCH PANCAKES.

MRS. BENSON BENNETT.

Four eggs, weight of four eggs in butter, sugar and flour, one half a
teaspoonful of soda, one half teaspoonful of cream of tartar. As much
milk as will make a batter. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add
the four eggs well beaten stir in all the other ingredients. Bake in tin
plates.


SCOTCH HAGGIS.

MRS. ANDREW T. LOVE.

Boil a sheep's draught for three quarters of an hour in as much water as
will cover it. Grate down the liver and mince the heart and lights very
fine. Mince two pounds of onions, and two pounds of beef suet, put in
three or four handsful of oatmeal with pepper and salt to taste. Having
these ingredients very well mixed, put them into the bag with a little
of the boilings of the draught. Pick the bag well to prevent its
bursting. It requires from three to four hours boiling, so if you make
it a day or two before you intend using it, it is better to boil it
two hours after it is made, and two hours when going to use it. Great
care must be taken in having the bag very particularly scraped and
cleansed by frequent washings in salt and water. The liver and heart,
etc., are better, to be boiled before, then they can be grated down
easily. Half of this receipt makes a very good sized Haggis.




INDEX.


                                                    PAGES.
    Soups                                           1 to 13
    Fish and Oysters                               14 to 21
    Meats                                          22 to 29
    Game                                           30 to 33
    Vegetables                                     34 to 42
    Entr√©es and Meats R√©chauff√©                    43 to 52
    Salads and Salad Dressing                      53 to 58
    Eggs                                           59 to 62
    Cheese Dishes                                        63
    The Chafing Dish                               64 to 66
    Pies                                           67 to 71
    Puddings                                       72 to 86
    Desserts                                       87 to 97
    Cakes                                          98 to 115
    Icings for Cakes                              116 to 118
    Gingerbread and Small Cakes                   119 to 125
    Confections                                   126 to 128
    Pickles                                       129 to 133
    Preserves                                     134 to 140
    Beverages                                     141 to 145
    Cooking for the Sick                          146 to 147
    Bread, Buns, Fritters                         148 to 155
    Scotch Haggis                                        156


     *     *     *     *     *     *


    YOU WILL FIND IT TO YOUR INTEREST TO MAKE
    INQUIRIES ABOUT THE

    Quebec & Lake St. John Ry.

    THE NEW ROUTE TO THE
    FAR-FAMED SAGUENAY

    And the ONLY RAIL LINE to the Delightful SUMMER
    RESORTS and FISHING GROUNDS north of
    Quebec and to Lake St. John and
    Chicoutimi, through the

    .. CANADIAN ADIRONDACKS ..

    [Illustration: QUEBEC & LAKE ST JOHN RAILWAY
    The New Route to the
    FAR-FAMED SAGUENAY.]

    Trains connect at Chicoutimi with
    Saguenay Steamers for

    TADOUSAC,
        CACOUNA,
          MURRAY BAY
            and QUEBEC.

    A round trip unequalled in America,
    through matchless Forest,
    Mountain, River and Lake Scenery,
    down the majestic Saguenay by daylight
    and back to the Fortress City.

    TOUCHING AT ALL THE
    BEAUTIFUL
    SEA-SIDE RESORTS,

    on the Lower St. Lawrence, with
    their Chain of Commodious Hotels.

    HOTEL ROBERVAL, Lake St. John,
    has first class accommodation for 300
    guests, and is run in connection with
    the ISLAND HOUSE, at GRAND DISCHARGE,
    of Lake St. John, the Centre
    of the OUANANICHE Fishing
    Grounds.

    PARLOR AND SLEEPING CARS

    Magnificent Scenery,
           Beautiful Climate.

    Apply to the Ticket Agents of all
    Principal Cities.

    A beautifully illustrated Guide
    Book free on application.

    ALEX. HARDY,                     J. G. SCOTT,
       Gen. Pass. Agent, Quebec.        Secy. & Manager.




    The Quebec Railway,
    Light & Power Co.

    Operate a CONSTANT SERVICE OF
    ELECTRIC CARS from all points of
    the City to Montmorency Falls, Ste.
    Anne de Beaupr√© and intermediate Stations
    at popular fares. They also supply
    incandescent and arc lighting to residences
    and stores at extremely low
    prices.

      Any information can be obtained from the General Manager
      or Superintendent.

    EDWARD A. EVANS,
            General Manager.

    OFFICE AT THE
          RAILWAY STATION.
                   CORNER OF ST. PAUL AND RAMSAY STS.

    Telephone No. 42.




    LADIES ..

    When you desire a most
    up-to-date JOB IN THE
    PRINTING LINE, remember
    we have the largest
    and most complete JOB
    OFFICE in town.

    .. THE DAILY TELEGRAPH ..


    VICTOR LAFRANCE.
    BOOKBINDER.
    No. 4 Buade Street,
    Opposite Post Office.


    GENERAL JOB ESTABLISHMENT

    --FROM--

    Plain Cheap Work Up to the
           Richest & Most Elaborately
                        Designed Bindings.

    Largest and Most Complete Plant in this City.




    [Illustration]

    There's Durability

    An well as elegance about
    our furniture that makes
    it attractive to all--if you
    doubt it, come and see.

    Furniture

    Bought of us, while not
    intended for rough usage,
    will stand it all right. The
    children can play on it,
    though you'll be just as
    well pleased if it is used
    for comfort rather than
    for playing.

    JAMES PERRY,

    323 St. Paul Street,
    QUEBEC.




    ..FINE..
    FLAVORING EXTRACTS

    BEST GOODS ---- BEST PRICES!

    Imperial Extract Company

    CHICAGO.

    ...SOLE AGENT FOR QUEBEC...

    ..The Red Cross Pharmacy..

    CORNER ST. JOHN and PALACE STS.




    THE
    CHINIC HARDWARE Co

    BRANCH STORE:

    Fabrique Street, - Quebec.

    Make a Specialty of
    House Furnishing Hardware
    ---- AND ----
    - - Kitchen Utensils - -

    Can furnish practically everything from...

    A Steel Range
    -- TO A --
    Larding Needle.

    All new and practical kitchen helps being added to the
    stock as they appear on the markets of

    CANADA, UNITED STATES, ENGLAND,
    FRANCE and GERMANY.




    Terms: CASH.   TELEPHONE 645.

    J. & J. DALY

    Dealers in Provisions

    BEEF, GAME, POULTRY, EGGS, BUTTER, HAMS,
    ....BACON, FRESH and SALT PORK, &c....

    33, MONTCALM MARKET,
    ... QUEBEC ...




    UP-TO-DATE PEOPLE PATRONIZE
    PFEIFFER'S DYE WORKS AND LAUNDRY.

    Shirt, Collars and Cuffs Laundered in the newest style of finish.
    "The DOMESTIC FINISH." No high gloss to look like Celluloid or Paper
    Collars, but a nice medium finish that has all the appearance of new
    work. High gloss finish is all out of style. Gentlemen these times
    always ask for the "Domestic Finish." We have equipped ourselves
    with the latest machines for this high grade of work.

    KID GLOVES cleaned by a new process, giving them the same soft
    finish as new kid. Try us and be convinced.

    FALL IS APPROACHING--Our Dyeing Departments are equipped in the same
    manner as the Laundry, with all the latest and most up-to-date
    machinery and appliances for the handling of all grades of work,
    from the most delicate fabrics to the heaviest and coarsest
    material. Fine Lace, Ladies Dresses, Gents' Suits, Curtains,
    Portieres, Rugs, etc. CARPETS CLEANED in a superior manner; all
    moths removed by our process of cleaning.

    All the orders entrusted to the Pfeiffer Dye Works and Laundry are
    under the personal supervision of the proprietors. All our work
    returned with the quickest despatch. Customers have not to wait
    until near midnight to have their goods returned. All orders
    returned early Saturday afternoon.

    BRANCH OFFICE, Phone 54.      MAIN OFFICE, Phone 524.

    88 Cote du Passage, Levis.    2, 4, 6 McMahon St., Quebec.




    The...

    CHAFING
    DISH.

    [Illustration]

    We offer the CHAFING DISH with
    the utmost confidence that to the
    user it will prove the most satisfactory
    and economical of cooking utensils.

    THE PRICES RANGE FROM $6 to $18.

    Our Booklet "The Chafing Dish," containing
    thirty-two recipes, sent free on application.

    G. SEIFERT & SONS,

    16 Fabrique Street, Quebec.

